<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>

<!DOCTYPE TEI.2 SYSTEM "http://www.gutenberg.org/tei/marcello/0.4/dtd/pgtei.dtd" [

<!ENTITY u5  "http://www.tei-c.org/Lite/">

]>

<TEI.2 lang="en">
<teiHeader>
  <fileDesc>
    <titleStmt>
      <title>Religion in Japan</title>
      <author><name reg="Cobbold, George">George A. Cobbold, B.A.</name></author>
    </titleStmt>
    <editionStmt>
      <edition n="1">Edition 1</edition>
    </editionStmt>
    <publicationStmt>
      <publisher>Project Gutenberg</publisher>
      <date>April 24, 2009</date>
      <idno type="etext-no">28598</idno>
      <availability>
        <p>This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and
        with almost no restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it
        away or re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg
        License online at www.gutenberg.org/license</p>
      </availability>
    </publicationStmt>
    <sourceDesc>
      <bibl>
        Created electronically.
      </bibl>
    </sourceDesc>
  </fileDesc>
  <encodingDesc>
  </encodingDesc>
  <profileDesc>
    <langUsage>
      <language id="en"></language>
      <language id="la"></language>
      <language id="fr"></language>
      <language id="ja"></language>
    </langUsage>
  </profileDesc>
  <revisionDesc>
    <change>
      <date value="2009-04-24">April 24, 2008</date>
      <respStmt>
        <name>
            Produced by David King and the Online
            Distributed Proofreading Team at &lt;http://www.pgdp.net/&gt;.
            (This file was produced from images generously made available by
            The Internet Archive/American Libraries.)
        </name>
      </respStmt>
      <item>Project Gutenberg TEI edition 1</item>
    </change>
  </revisionDesc>
</teiHeader>

<pgExtensions>
  <pgStyleSheet>
    .boxed           { x-class: boxed }
    .shaded          { x-class: shaded }
    .rules           { x-class: rules; rules: all }
    .indent          { margin-left: 2 }
    .bold            { font-weight: bold }
    .italic          { font-style: italic }
    .smallcaps       { font-variant: small-caps }
  </pgStyleSheet>

  <pgCharMap formats="txt.iso-8859-1">
    <char id="U0x2014">
      <charName>mdash</charName>
      <desc>EM DASH</desc>
      <mapping>--</mapping>
    </char>
    <char id="U0x2003">
      <charName>emsp</charName>
      <desc>EM SPACE</desc>
      <mapping>  </mapping>
    </char>
    <char id="U0x2026">
      <charName>hellip</charName>
      <desc>HORIZONTAL ELLIPSIS</desc>
      <mapping>...</mapping>
    </char>
  </pgCharMap>
</pgExtensions>

<text lang="en">
  <front>
    <div>
      <divGen type="pgheader" />
    </div>
    <div>
      <divGen type="encodingDesc" />
    </div>

    <div rend="page-break-before: always">
      <p rend="font-size: xx-large; text-align: center">Religion in Japan:</p>
      <p rend="font-size: x-large; text-align: center">Shintoism&mdash;Buddhism&mdash;Christianity.</p>
      <p rend="font-size: large; text-align: center">By</p>
      <p rend="font-size: x-large; text-align: center">George A. Cobbold, B.A.</p>
      <p rend="font-size: large; text-align: center">Pembroke College, Oxford</p>
      <p rend="font-size: large; text-align: center">With Illustrations.</p>
      <p rend="text-align: center">Printed Under The Direction of the Tract Committee.</p>
      <p rend="text-align: center">London:</p>
      <p rend="text-align: center">Society For Promoting Christian Knowledge,</p>
      <p rend="text-align: center">Northumberland Avenue, W.C.; 43, Queen Victoria Street, E.C.</p>
      <p rend="text-align: center">Brighton: 129, North Street</p>
      <p rend="text-align: center">New York: E. S. Gorham</p>
      <p rend="text-align: center">1905</p>
    </div>
    <div rend="page-break-before: always">
      <head>Contents</head>
      <divGen type="toc" />
    </div>

  </front>
<body>

<pb n='011'/><anchor id='Pg011'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Introductory.</head>

<p>
It may well be questioned whether, in the course
of a like period of time, any country has ever
undergone greater transitions, or made more
rapid strides along the path of civilization
than has Japan during the last quarter of a century.
A group of numerous islands, situated on the
high-road and thoroughfare of maritime traffic
across the Pacific, between the Eastern and Western
hemispheres, and in area considerably exceeding
Great Britain and Ireland,&mdash;Japan, until thirty
years ago, was a <foreign lang='la' rend='italic'>terra incognita</foreign> to the rest
of the world; exceeding even China in its conservatism
and exclusiveness. And now, within
a space of some five-and-twenty years, such changes
have come about as to have given birth to the
expression,&mdash;<q>the transformation of Japan.</q> The
more conspicuous of these changes are summed
up by a recent writer in the following words:&mdash;<q>New
and enlightened criminal codes have
been enacted; the methods of judicial procedure
have been entirely changed; thoroughly efficient
systems of police, of posts, of telegraphs, and
<pb n='012'/><anchor id='Pg012'/>
of national education have been organized; an
army and a navy modelled after Western patterns
have been formed; the finances of the Empire have
been placed on a sound basis; railways, roads, and
harbours have been constructed; an efficient mercantile
marine has sprung into existence; the jail
system has been radically improved; an extensive
scheme of local government has been put into
operation; a competitive civil service has been
organized; the whole fiscal system has been revised;
an influential and widely-read newspaper press has
grown up with extraordinary rapidity; and government
by parliament has been substituted for
monarchical absolutism.</q><note place='foot'>Sir Edwin Arnold's
<hi rend='italic'>Seas and Lands</hi>, chap. xxvii.</note> At the present day, an
Englishman travelling in Japan is constantly
meeting numbers of his countrymen, intent on
either business or pleasure; while at all the principal
cities and places of resort, handsome new
hotels, fitted in Western style, are to be found. The
Mikado may be seen driving through his Capital
in a carriage that would not be out of place in the
Parks of London or Paris; and at Court ceremonies
European dress is <foreign lang='fr' rend='italic'>de rigueur</foreign>. English is
taught in all the better-class schools, and at the
Universities the works of such authors as Bacon,
Locke, Macaulay, Darwin, John Stuart Mill, Herbert
Spencer, are in constant request with the
students. In short, on every side evidence is
<pb n='013'/><anchor id='Pg013'/>
afforded, that be it for better or for worse, the old
order is fast changing and giving place to new.
</p>

<p>
The circumstances which have brought about
these wonderful changes can only be very briefly
indicated here. It was towards the middle of the
sixteenth century that Japan first came into contact
with the Western world; the first traders to arrive
being the Portuguese, who were followed some sixty
years later by the Dutch, and in 1613 by a few
English ships. To all of these alike a hospitable
reception appears to have been accorded; nor is
there any doubt that Japanese exclusiveness was
a thing of subsequent growth, and that it was
based only on a sincere conviction that the nation's
well-being and happiness would be best consulted
by refusing to have dealings with the outer world.
And indeed, that the Japanese should have arrived
at this decision is by no means to be wondered
at; their first experience of foreign intercourse
having been singularly unfortunate. The unhappy
breach, which eventually led to Japan entirely
closing her ports to foreign traffic, was, it would
seem, due partly to the attitude of harsh intolerance
and general interference adopted by certain of the
Roman Catholic missionaries, who by this time
had arrived in the country: and partly to the
insinuations made by the Dutch that the Portuguese
were aiming at territorial aggrandizement.
Anyhow, in 1624, Japan was entirely closed to
<pb n='014'/><anchor id='Pg014'/>
foreign trade, save for some concessions,&mdash;accompanied
by the severest restrictions,&mdash;permitted to
the Dutch; no foreigners were allowed to enter,
and no natives to leave, the empire; the missionaries
were expelled, and Christianity was prohibited
under pain of death. The Japanese, as has been
said, <q>suspected everybody and shut out the
world.</q> Previous to this crisis the English had
retired; but when, in 1673, our country sought to
resume friendly relations, the connexion existing
between the English and Portuguese courts proved
an insuperable obstacle.<note place='foot'>Charles II's queen,
it will be remembered, was Katharine of
Braganza.</note> Subsequent overtures
made in 1849, were courteously but firmly rejected;
though the period of Japan's isolation was, as later
events proved, almost at an end. In 1853, the
Government of the United States despatched a fleet
across the Pacific, under the command of Commodore
Perry, to insist upon the surrender of
a policy which, it was urged, no one nation of the
world had a right to adopt towards the rest.
Whether the arguments with which this position
was advanced would of themselves have prevailed,
is impossible to say; but since it was evident that
should words fail, sterner measures would be
resorted to, Japan had no choice but to submit.
Treaties were accordingly concluded, first with the
United States, and subsequently with England
<pb n='015'/><anchor id='Pg015'/>
and other European powers; by virtue of which
a few ports were grudgingly opened, and Japanese
subjects permitted to engage in commercial transactions
with the outside world. For the first few
years, it is certain that a strong feeling of suspicion
and dislike towards foreigners was rife; but in
1868 events occurred which brought about a complete
change in the whole situation. For some
six hundred years a dual system of government
had existed in Japan. On the one hand, was the
Mikado, supposed to trace a lineage of unbroken
descent from the gods, and accorded a veneration
semi-divine, but living in seclusion at the city of
Kyoto, with such powers of administration as he
still retained confined to matters of religion and
education. On the other hand, was the Shogun,
or Tycoon, the acknowledged head of a feudalism,
which, while nominally recognizing the Mikado's
authority, had usurped the sovereign power, and
really governed the country. But in 1868, the
altered circumstances in which Japan found herself
brought about a revolution. The ancient nobility
were filled with indignation and disgust at the
Tycoon so far violating Japanese tradition as to
enter into treaties with foreign countries; and,
as a consequence of this rupture, the Shogunate,
whose power had for some time been waning,
completely collapsed. The Mikado was restored to
imperial power, and at once entered upon a policy
<pb n='016'/><anchor id='Pg016'/>
which has been consistently adhered to, and received
with favour by the people generally, who
had grown impatient of the restraint which environed
them. That policy may be termed the
Europeanization of the Empire; and in it we have
the explanation of the Japan of to-day.
</p>

<p>
It is not surprising that the interest excited
in England, with regard to a country which has
experienced such remarkable changes, should be
of the greatest&mdash;especially when it is remembered
in how large a degree English influence has contributed
to produce them. We may be certain,
also, that the still further developments the future
has in store, will be followed in our own country
with a close attention. Equally natural is it that,
in these days of so great fashion and facility for
travelling, increasing numbers of English people
should avail themselves of the opportunity of
exploring a country so entirely unique, and so
rich in its attractions of nature and of art. These
circumstances have combined to call into existence
a large number of books on Japan, from which
any, who are unable to visit it in person, may
obtain as good an idea as is possible by reading
of the country, its people, and its customs. Indeed
it is by no means easy for any writer now to
fasten upon an aspect of the subject, in which he
does not find himself forestalled. That, however,
on which, so far as I understand, least has been
<pb n='017'/><anchor id='Pg017'/>
written, is precisely that towards which my own
main attention was directed from the time of my
leaving England, and throughout the period of
my visit to the country,&mdash;namely, the <emph>religious</emph>
aspect. That the following pages must be very
imperfect in the statement they supply, I am well
aware; and that, despite my efforts to obtain
trustworthy information, they will not prove free
from inaccuracy or mistake is extremely probable.
But I was induced to enter upon their preparation
by a series of circumstances that appeared to
favour such a task, and need not be specified here.
For the material supplied to me, however, by one
kind friend in particular, without whose assistance
these articles would never have been attempted,
I must express my special obligation. I would
gladly refer to him by name, did I feel at liberty
to do so without obtaining his permission, which
I have not, at the time of writing, the opportunity
of asking. Also, among the books I have consulted
on the subject, I must acknowledge my great
indebtedness to Messrs. Chamberlain and Mason's
excellent <hi rend='italic'>Handbook for Japan</hi> (Murray, 1891);
and to a copy of Dr. E. J. Eitel's <hi rend='italic'>Lectures on Buddhism</hi>
(Trübner, 1871), given me by the author, at
the close of a most interesting day spent under his
guidance. The sketch Map of Japan is inserted by
the kind permission of the <q>Guild of St. Paul.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>November, 1893.</hi>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='018'/><anchor id='Pg018'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>I. Shintoism.</head>

<p>
When, in the sixth century of the Christian era,
Buddhism was introduced into Japan from China,
by way of Korea, the need was felt of some term
by which the ancient indigenous religion of the
country might be distinguished from the new
importation. The term thus adopted was <foreign rend='italic'>Shinto</foreign>,
or <foreign lang='la' rend='italic'>Kami-no-michi</foreign>; the former being a Chinese
word, and the latter its Japanese equivalent. The
meaning of either, in English, is the <q>Way of the
Genii, or Spirits.</q><note place='foot'>This rendering
seems preferable to the more usual <q>Way of the
Gods.</q> The term <emph>Polytheism</emph> is not, strictly speaking, applicable
to Shinto.</note> It will, accordingly, be seen
that the <emph>word</emph> <q>Shinto</q> has only been in use for
some thirteen centuries, while the creed it designates
claims to trace its origin from the remotest antiquity.
Indeed, the investigation of Shintoism takes us
back not merely to the earliest annals of Japanese
history, but to the fabulous legends of a mythological
period. The history of Japan is commonly
<pb n='019'/><anchor id='Pg019'/>
reckoned to commence with the accession of the
Emperor Jimmu Tenno, the date of which is given
as February 11, 660 <hi rend='smallcaps'>b.c.</hi>; and when, in 1889, the
new Constitution was promulgated, the anniversary
of this event was the day selected&mdash;the idea
evidently being to confirm the popular belief in
the continuity of the country's history. This
Jimmu Tenno&mdash;accounted by the Japanese their
first human sovereign&mdash;is supposed to have been
descended from Ama-terasu, the sun-goddess, who
was born from the left eye of Izanagi, the creator
of Japan; and this it is that accounts for the semi-deification
in which the Emperors of Japan have ever
been held. It is, then, the countless heroes and
demi-gods of the mythological age referred to&mdash;the
children of Izanagi reigning over Japan, generation
after generation, for many thousands of years&mdash;that
are the chief objects of Shinto veneration;
for while it is usual to speak of Shintoism as
being a combination of ancestor-worship and
nature-worship, it would seem that the latter of
these elements was largely due to the contact of
Japan with the Taouism of China, and with metaphysical
Buddhism. Thus the essential principle
of Shintoism, it will be seen, is closely akin to that
filial piety, which forms so conspicuous a feature
in the religious, political, and social life of China,
and which&mdash;deserving as it is, in many ways, of
respect and admiration&mdash;presents, when carried
<pb n='020'/><anchor id='Pg020'/>
to excess, so vast a hindrance to development and
progress.
</p>

<p>
<q>Shintoism,</q> in the words of Diayoro Goh,
Chancellor of the Japanese Consulate General in
London, <q>originated in the worship offered by
a barbarous people to the mythological persons of
its own invention.</q> To speak accurately, it is not
so much a religion as patriotism exalted to the
rank of a creed. It is a veneration of the country's
heroes and benefactors of every age, legendary and
historical, ancient and more recent; the spirits of
these being appealed to for protection. Interwoven
with this, its fundamental characteristic, and to
a great extent obscuring it, is a worship of the
personified forces of nature; expressing itself often
in the most abject superstition, and, until lately, also
in that grosser symbolism with which the religion of
Ancient Egypt abounded. This latter feature was
widely prevalent in Japan at the time that the
country was first opened to foreigners; but after
the Revolution in 1868, it was everywhere suppressed.
It would appear that the personal cleanliness
for which the Japanese, as a nation, are
celebrated, had its origin in the idea of the purification
of the body symbolizing the cleansing
of the soul; and in a vague and hazy sort of
way, Shintoism would seem to recognize a future
state of bliss or misery, for which the present life
is a period of probation. Practically, however,
<pb n='021'/><anchor id='Pg021'/>
this is the only world with which Shintoism
concerns itself; nor does it inculcate any laws of
morality or conduct, conscience and the heart being
accounted sufficient guides. It provides neither
public worship, nor sermons; while its application
is limited to subjects of the Mikado. <q>It is the
least exacting of all religions.</q> When this is
once understood, there ceases to be anything
surprising in the fact of two religions&mdash;of which
Shintoism was one, and the other a creed so
accommodating as Buddhism&mdash;running, side by
side, for centuries in the same country, and being
professed simultaneously by the same people, until
the two were so closely interwoven that it became
scarcely possible to distinguish their respective
elements. In the eighteenth century an attempt
was made to restore Shintoism to its primitive
simplicity, and to mould it into a philosophical
system which might minister to the higher aspirations
of humanity. But the movement was a failure,
and the Ryobu-Shinto, or <q>double religion,</q>&mdash;the
combination, that is to say, of Shintoism and
Buddhism&mdash;continued as before. It was only so
lately as the year 1868 that any important change
took place in the religious history of Japan. In
that year, Shintoism&mdash;for reasons wholly political&mdash;was
adopted as the State, or <q>established</q> religion;
Buddhism having always been the religion favoured
by the Shogunate, and the ancient nobility whom
<pb n='022'/><anchor id='Pg022'/>
the Shogun represented. Upon this, every temple
was required to declare itself either Shinto or
Buddhist, and to remove the emblems and ornaments
peculiar to the discarded cult, whichever
that might be. That no little excitement and
dispute followed upon this proclamation, will be
readily understood; especially when we bear in
mind that, for several hundred years, Buddhist and
Shinto clergy had taken their turns of officiating
in the same buildings and at the same altars.<note place='foot'>One
of the great temples at Shiba, Tokio, was burnt by the
Buddhists to prevent its falling into the hands of the Shinto
priests. It may be mentioned here, as an instance of the liberal
feeling of the present (Shinto) government, that one of this same
group of buildings was lent for the Church of England services,
before St. Andrew's church was built. It is the old nobility
who have been throughout the uncompromising opponents of
Christianity, and indeed of all change; and the most zealous supporters
of Buddhism.</note>
A grant of some £60,000 a year was made by the
Government for the maintenance of the Shinto
temples and shrines, which are said to number in
all about 98,000, and to be dedicated to no less
than 3,700 different Genii, or Kami. Already,
however, Shintoism has lost the greater part of the
importance into which it was brought at the time
of the Revolution; and, apart from the fact that it
is supported out of the imperial revenues, and
that the presence of its principal officials is required
at certain of the state functions, its general position
has in no way improved. The people still practise
<pb n='023'/><anchor id='Pg023'/>
the observances of both religions alike; the only
difference being that, to effect this, they have now
to visit two temples instead of one. A new-born
child, for instance, is taken by its parents to both
Shinto and Buddhist temples, for the purpose of
solemn dedication. Another of the changes brought
about is that, instead of all funerals being conducted
by Buddhist priests, as was the case until 1868,
the dead are now buried by either Shinto or
Buddhist clergy, as the relatives may prefer. Of
the many signs which indicate that Shintoism has
well nigh run its course, not the least remarkable
was the announcement made last year (1892) by
the Government itself, to the effect that its rites
were to be regarded as simply traditional and
commemorative, and devoid of any real religious
significance. The relief thus afforded to the minds
and consciences of Christians in Japan was, as
might be supposed, very great.
</p>

<p>
Of the various sects the <foreign lang='ja' rend='italic'>Zhikko</foreign>,&mdash;founded
1541 <hi rend='smallcaps'>a.d.</hi>,&mdash;is, perhaps, the most influential. This
sect&mdash;as indeed do Shintoists generally&mdash;recognizes one
eternal absolute Deity, a being of infinite benevolence;
and here&mdash;as in other heathen religions&mdash;we
find vague references to a Trinity engaged in
the work of Creation.
</p>

<p rend="text-align: center">
<figure url="images/shinto-priests.png" rend="width: 100%">
  <head>Group of Shinto Priests With Torii.</head>
  <figDesc>Illustration.</figDesc>
</figure>
</p>

<p>
Despite the dissociation of the two religions,
many of the Shinto temples still retain traces of
the Buddhist influence. Of Shintoism proper the
<pb n='024'/><anchor id='Pg024'/>
prevailing characteristic is a marked simplicity,
which, however, is often found combined with
great artistic beauty. Sometimes the shrine consists
only of a rude altar, situated amid a grove
of trees; but, even in the case of large temples
with a complete group of buildings, the architecture
is extremely plain, the material employed
being unornamented white wood with a thatch
of chamaecyparis. The entrance to the temple
grounds is always through gateways, called
<foreign lang='ja' rend='italic'>Torii</foreign>;
these are made sometimes of stone, but more
properly of wood, and consist of two unpainted
tree-trunks, with another on the top and a horizontal
beam beneath. Near the entrance are
commonly found stone figures of dogs or lions,
which are supposed to act as guardians. The
principal shrine, or <foreign lang='ja' rend='italic'>Honsha</foreign>, is situated at the
further end of the sacred enclosure, and is divided
by a railing into an ante-room and an inner
sanctuary. Within the sanctuary an altar is
erected, on which, however, no images or adornments
are seen, but simply offerings of rice, fruit,
wine, &amp;c. Above the altar, in a conspicuous
position, a large mirror is generally placed; and in
a box beneath are usually kept a sword, and a stone.
These three,&mdash;the mirror, the sword, and the stone,&mdash;constitute
the Japanese regalia, and they are all
connected with the early legends. One of the traditions
respecting the sacred mirror deserves quotation.
</p>

<pb n='025'/><anchor id='Pg025'/>

<p>
<q>When the time was come that Izanagi and his
consort should return together to the celestial
regions, he called his children together, bidding
them dry their tears, and listen attentively to his
last wishes. He then committed to them a disc of
polished silver, bidding them each morning place
themselves on their knees before it, and there see
reflected on their countenances the impress of any
evil passions deliberately indulged; and again each
night carefully to examine themselves, that their
last thoughts might be after the happiness of that
higher world whither their parents had preceded
them.</q> The legend goes on to relate with what
faithfulness <q>the children of Izanagi, and afterwards
their descendants, carried out these injunctions;
erecting an altar of wood to receive the sacred
mirror, and placing upon it vases and flowers,&mdash;and
how, as a reward for their obedience and devotion,
they became in their turn, the spirits of good, the
undying Kami.</q><note place='foot'>Eden's Japan, Historical and Descriptive.</note>
</p>

<p>
Another of the most common of the Shinto
emblems is a slim wand of unpainted wood, called
<foreign lang='ja' rend='italic'>Gohei</foreign>, to which strips of white
paper&mdash;originally they were of cloth&mdash;are attached. These are
thought to attract the deities, and are held in great
veneration.
</p>

<p>
Leaving the principal shrine, and proceeding to
make the tour of the grounds, the visitor comes, in
<pb n='026'/><anchor id='Pg026'/>
turn, to the buildings where the business arrangements
of the temple are transacted, and where the
priests, in some cases, reside; to smaller shrines and
oratories; to cisterns for the purpose of ceremonial
ablution, &amp;c. Sometimes, also, at the more important
temples is found a long covered platform,
called the <foreign lang='ja' rend='italic'>Kagura-do</foreign>, where, on festivals and
special occasions, a number of girls&mdash;those I saw at Nara
were still quite children&mdash;perform the
<foreign lang='ja' rend='italic'>Kagura</foreign>, or
sacred dance. The dancing is in honour of the
divinity to whom the temple is dedicated; and
commemorates a supposed incident of the mythological
period. In the grounds of Shinto and
Buddhist temples alike are frequently found
numerous stone-lanterns, erected by way of votive
offerings, and lighted on any great occasions.
</p>

<p>
It has already been remarked that Shintoism has
nothing corresponding to our public worship; but
every morning and evening the priests&mdash;whose
office seems held in no particular sanctity, and who
are at liberty, at any time, to adopt a more secular
calling&mdash;perform a service before the altar, vested
in white dresses, somewhat resembling albs and
confined at the waist by a girdle. The service
consists of the presentation of offerings and of the
recital of various invocations, chiefly laudatory.
The devotions of the people are remarkable for
their brevity and simplicity. The worshipper,
on arriving at the shrine, rings a bell, or sounds
<pb n='027'/><anchor id='Pg027'/>
a gong, to engage the attention of the deity he
desires to invoke; throws a coin of the smallest
possible value on to the matting within the
sanctuary rails; makes one or two prostrations;
and then, clapping his hands, to intimate to his
patron that his business with him is over, retires&mdash;it
not being considered necessary to give to the
petition any verbal expression. The making of
pilgrimages, however, still occupies a prominent
place in the Shinto system, and though of late
years the number of pilgrims has considerably
decreased, long journeys are still undertaken to the
great temple of the sun-goddess at Ise&mdash;the <q>Mecca
of Japan,</q>&mdash;and other celebrated shrines. The chief
object of the pilgrimage is the purchase of
<foreign lang='ja' rend='italic'>O-harai</foreign>,
or sacred charms, which can only be obtained on
the spot. These, when brought home, are placed
on the <foreign lang='ja' rend='italic'>Kamidana</foreign>,
or god-shelf&mdash;a miniature temple
of wood, found in every Shinto house, to which are
attached the names of various patron deities, and
the monumental tablets of the family. His purchase
of the O-harai completed, the pilgrim betakes
himself to the enjoyment of the various shows and
other amusements provided for him in the neighbourhood
of the temple.
</p>

<p>
To conclude this brief sketch of Shintoism. Such
influence as the cult still possesses may be
attributed to the superstition of the poor and
illiterate; and to a reluctance, on the part of the
<pb n='028'/><anchor id='Pg028'/>
more educated, to break with so venerable a past.
The latter, however, though they continue to
conform to them, do not regard its observances
seriously; while the importance attached to them
by the State is, as we have seen, wholly political.
In the words of Diayoro Goh, spoken in the course
of a lecture delivered in London two or three years
since: <q>Shintoism, being so restricted in its sphere,
offers little obstacle to the introduction of another
religion,</q>&mdash;provided, as he added, that the veneration
of the Mikado, which has always formed the
fundamental feature of Japanese government, is not
interfered with. The truth of this statement has
already been abundantly exemplified in the position
which Buddhism for so many centuries held in the
religious life of Japan. In the same way, when,
three hundred years ago, Christianity was introduced
into the country by the Portuguese, it was
largely owing to the attitude which some of the
missionaries adopted towards these national rites,
that the complications arose, which eventually led
to the expulsion of foreigners, and the persecution
of Christians. And surely, when we think of it, it
is not strange that an intense jealousy should be
exhibited on behalf of observances and ceremonies,
traceable back to such remote antiquity, and so
intimately bound up with the whole political and
social life of the nation. It is, indeed, highly
probable that, in the great changes Japan is undergoing,
<pb n='029'/><anchor id='Pg029'/>
she will find other methods of cherishing the
continuity of her, in many ways, illustrious past.
But meanwhile, Christians in Japan may rejoice
that they are permitted, with a quiet conscience, to
manifest a respectful regard for a system that is
by no means destitute of praiseworthy features.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='030'/><anchor id='Pg030'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>II. Buddhism.</head>

<p>
It is quite possible that to some of the readers
of these pages the very name of Shintoism was
unknown; whereas all will have heard and read
at least something of Buddhism, one of the four
most prevalent religions of the world, and claiming
at the present day considerably more than four
hundred millions of adherents.<note place='foot'>Even
an approximate total is difficult to calculate. At the
lowest estimate we have a number considerably exceeding the whole
mass of Christians. But it is important to bear in mind that
in China, <emph>which supplies more than three-fourths of the total number</emph>,
both Taouism and Confucianism are professed in conjunction with
Buddhism. See Rhys Davids' <hi rend='italic'>Buddhism</hi>, chap. I
(S.P.C.K.).</note> At the same time,
our inquiry into Buddhism cannot be comprised
within such narrow limits as sufficed for our examination
of the indigenous religion of Japan; the
subject being one of the vastest dimensions. Perhaps,
then, it may be better if, at the outset, I allude to
some of the literature, published within the last
few years, which has been most instrumental in
attracting attention, both in England and America,
to the subject. Nor, in this connexion, can all
<pb n='031'/><anchor id='Pg031'/>
reference be omitted to the writings of the late
Madame Blavatsky, Mr. Sinnett, and their school;
though I refer to them only in order to caution my
readers against forming from them any estimate
of Buddhism. The only literature, as far as I know,
that has appeared in England from what claims to
be an enthusiastic Buddhist stand-point, these writings
are, I believe, calculated to convey a curiously
erroneous idea of the great system with which we
are now concerned, to any who would turn for
information to them exclusively. This, indeed,
becomes obvious when it is understood that the
Buddhism, of which these books profess to treat,
is not the Buddhism of history and the sacred
books, not the Buddhism which forms the popular
religion of hundreds of millions of Asiatics at
the present day, but an <q>esoteric</q> Buddhism, a
knowledge of which, it is admitted, is confined
to a comparative few, even in the country where it
is said to be most prevalent.<note place='foot'>Thibet.</note> In short, the
<q>esoteric Buddhism</q> of Mr. Sinnett and his friends
would seem to be scarcely, if at all, distinguishable
from the movement which has recently acquired
a brief notoriety in England under the name of
Theosophy; and with this, Buddhism proper&mdash;i.e.
the historical, popular Buddhism with which we
have to do&mdash;can hardly be said to have anything
in common.
</p>

<pb n='032'/><anchor id='Pg032'/>

<p>
With the book, however, which probably more
than any other work of the day has been the
means of drawing the attention of English-speaking
people to Buddhism, we cannot deal in so
summary a fashion. For in Sir Edwin Arnold's
poem, <hi rend='italic'>The Light of Asia</hi>, we have a work which is
simply a rendering of the life of Buddha, in general
accordance with the received traditions, and one,
moreover, which has met with a cordial welcome
at the hands of Buddhists. Nor can it be questioned
that the book is a production of great
power, or that it appeals altogether to a very
different class of readers from that likely to be
influenced by the <hi rend='italic'>Occult World</hi>,
or <hi rend='italic'>Isis Unveiled</hi>.
</p>

<p>
It is indeed, the great beauty of its poetry, and
the book's consequent popularity, that only make
the more necessary a reference which must to some
extent take the form of a protest. To put it
briefly, the case is this:&mdash;Men and women have risen
from a perusal of the <hi rend='italic'>Light of Asia</hi> with a sense of
damage done to their Christian faith, and with
a feeling&mdash;confused, perhaps, but not the less real&mdash;that
in Gautama Buddha they have been confronted
with a formidable rival to Jesus Christ. How far
the poem is responsible for this result we will not
attempt to determine; and that such was no part of
the author's intention we may readily believe. But
that the minds of not a few have been perplexed and
disturbed by the reading of this book is a certain
<pb n='033'/><anchor id='Pg033'/>
fact; making it neither surprising nor regrettable
that its publication should have been followed by
works on the subject, written from an emphatically
Christian point of view. To the fullest and ablest
of these,&mdash;the Rev. S. H. Kellogg's <hi rend='italic'>The Light of Asia
and the Light of the World: a Comparison of the
Legend, the Doctrine and the Ethics of the Buddha,
with the Story, the Doctrine and the Ethics of Christ</hi>
(Macmillan, 1885),&mdash;I would refer those desirous of
investigating fully the points at issue; contenting
myself now with a few brief observations.
</p>

<p>
It is, then, important to bear in mind that Sir E.
Arnold's poem is written in the person, and from
the stand-point of an imaginary Buddhist. This
is indicated plainly on the title-page, in the preface,
and in the course of the poem itself; and
when the book comes to be read by the light of
this explanation, a limitation is cast about much of
its more startling language. To take, for instance,
such expressions as <q>Our Lord,</q> <q>Saviour,</q> <q>come
to save the world,</q> constantly assigned to Buddha
in the course of the poem. However accustomed
Christians may be to associate such terms with
One only, and however pained they may feel at
their being referred, under any circumstances and
with any restrictions, to another, still it is obvious
that their use becomes less open to objection, when
placed in the mouth of a disciple, singing the
praise of his Master,&mdash;and that Master, one who,
<pb n='034'/><anchor id='Pg034'/>
it can hardly be disputed, wrought no mean
work of deliverance on the earth. Far less admitting
of satisfactory explanation are passages
in the book in which we find transferred to
Buddha and Buddhism ideas and language distinctively
Christian; the solemn saying of Simeon
to the Holy Mother, <q>A sword shall pierce
through thine own soul also,</q> and the still more
solemn, <q>It is finished</q> of the Cross, being made
to supply particularly distressing instances of such
treatment.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Light of Asia</hi>,
i. 142, and vi. 688.</note>
</p>

<p>
Or once again: but what I would say now has
already been urged by Dr. Eitel, in words which
I cannot do better than quote. <q>I believe,</q> he says,
<q>it would be unjust to pick out any of those queer
and childish sayings with which the Buddhist
Scriptures and especially popular Buddhist books
abound, and to lead people to imagine that Buddhism
is little better than a string of nonsense.
It is even doubtful whether the earliest Buddhist
texts contained such statements at all; for, unlike
our Bible, the Buddhist canon has undergone
wholesale textual alterations.... As to the popular
literature of Buddhism, and its absurdities, we
might as well collect those little pamphlets on
dreams, on sorcery, on lucky and unlucky days, on
the lives and miracles of saints, which circulate
among Roman Catholic peasants,&mdash;but would that
<pb n='035'/><anchor id='Pg035'/>
give us a true picture of Roman Catholicism?
Thus it is with Buddhism.</q><note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Lectures
on Buddhism</hi>, pp. 62-3.</note> In other words,
Dr. Eitel would urge that in order to deal fairly
with such a subject, we must try to distinguish
the essence of the thing itself from the abuses and
follies that may, from time to time, have gathered
round it; and this, it is to be feared, has not
always been done by English writers, in treating
of Buddhism.
</p>

<p>
For the sake of clearness, we may next proceed to
trace a brief outline of the life of Buddha, according
to the belief of Buddhists generally, and stripped
of such legends and superstitions as find no credence
with the more educated and intellectual.
It is true that a doubt has sometimes been expressed
as to the existence of Gautama Buddha
at all; while even so eminent an authority as
Mr. Spence Hardy declares his conviction that,
owing to the lack of really authentic information,
<q>it is impossible to rely implicitly on any single
statement made in relation to him.</q><note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Legends
and Theories of the Buddhists</hi>, p. 187.</note> But even
supposing the Buddha of the commonly-received
traditions to be, whether in part or in entirety,
a mere creation of Indian thought, the case undergoes
no vital alteration; seeing that it is with the
religion of Buddhism that we are mainly concerned,
and only in quite a subordinate degree with the
<pb n='036'/><anchor id='Pg036'/>
person of its supposed founder. The point is one
that deserves careful attention, suggesting as it
does at once the essential difference between
Buddhism and Christianity, and the immeasurable
distance which divides the two. For of Christianity
it is no exaggeration to say that upon the truth of
the received accounts of its Founder's Life and
Person its whole position absolutely depends;
whereas, could it be proved that Gautama never
even lived, the system associated with his name
would suffer no material loss,&mdash;and this, because
in Buddha we are invited to contemplate only
a teacher and a guide, one who would have men
seek purification and deliverance by the same
means as he himself needed to employ, and one
who never claimed to be more than human. Most
persons, however, will prefer to accept as, in the
main, historically correct the commonly accepted
outline of the life of Buddha which may thus be
given&mdash;
</p>

<p>
The reputed founder of Buddhism was one
Siddhartha, known in later life as Gautama, and
later still, by the title of Buddha, or the <q>Enlightened
One.</q> Siddhartha was a prince of the
Sakya tribe, whose territories were situated some
hundred miles north-east of the city of Benares.
Hence he is often spoken of under the name of
<foreign rend='italic'>Sakya-muni</foreign>, or the <q>Sakya sage.</q> As regards his
date, widely different opinions are held; sometimes
<pb n='037'/><anchor id='Pg037'/>
it is placed as early as the tenth, and sometimes as
late as the third century <hi rend='smallcaps'>b.c.</hi> The most competent
authorities, however, agree in following the
Buddhists of Ceylon, and take 543 <hi rend='smallcaps'>b.c.</hi> as the date
of his death.<note place='foot'>Prof. Max Müller, however
(<hi rend='italic'>Hibbert Lectures</hi>, 1878, p. 134
note), gives weighty reasons for regarding 477
<hi rend='smallcaps'>b.c.</hi> as the year of Buddha's
death.</note> His father's name was Suddhodana;
his mother was called Maia. Of the earlier years
of Siddhartha's life we have little information that
is at all to be relied on; but his early manhood
appears to have been spent amid the luxury and
self-indulgence customary with Oriental princes.
Gautama, however, was a man of great benevolence,
and we are told that, while still quite young, he
pondered deeply on the mystery of the pain and
suffering which held the human race in bondage.
Presently, becoming dissatisfied with his own life
of ease and pleasure, he made the <q>Great Renunciation;</q>
turning his back, at the age of thirty,
on wife and parents, home and wealth. After
spending some years in travel, he retired to the
forest, where he attached himself to a little band of
ascetics, and practised severe forms of discipline
and self-mortification; hoping thus to discover the
secret of release from suffering. But meeting with
no success, and still fast bound by the trammels of
ignorance, he betook himself to contemplation;
until one day, as he was seated beneath the Bo-tree,&mdash;henceforth
<pb n='038'/><anchor id='Pg038'/>
to be accounted sacred<note place='foot'><q>The Buddhists
look upon the Bo-tree as most Christians have looked upon
the Cross.</q>&mdash;Rhys Davids' <hi rend='italic'>Buddhism</hi>,
p. 37 note.</note>&mdash;the
struggles of his soul prevailed, and he passed out
of darkness into light. He was now Buddha, He
who Knew, the Enlightened. The four truths to
the knowledge of which Gautama thus attained,
and which form the very foundation of the Buddhist
doctrine, are these&mdash;(i) That man is born to suffering,
both mental and physical: he experiences it
himself, he inflicts it upon others; (ii) that this
suffering is occasioned by desire; (iii) that the
condition of suffering in which man finds himself
admits of amelioration and relief; (iv) the way
of release, and the attainment to Nirvana.
</p>

<p>
Here we must pause to make the inquiry, What
is meant by <foreign rend='italic'>Nirvana</foreign>,&mdash;the goal of the Buddhist's
hope and aim? Literally, the word means <q>extinction</q>;
and hence it has often come to be
regarded as a mere synonym for annihilation.
The variety of opinions held by European scholars
as to its meaning is, there is little doubt, due to the
fact that Buddhists themselves are by no means
agreed as to its precise significance. Is Nirvana
a state of consciousness or unconsciousness? Is the
personality perpetuated, or is the <emph>ego</emph> absorbed,&mdash;i.e.
into Buddha? Such questions are differently
answered by the different schools. Concerning
the nature of Nirvana, Buddha himself, in his
<pb n='039'/><anchor id='Pg039'/>
agnosticism, would seem to have been almost wholly
silent. He appears to have simply taught that by
the suppression and <q>extinction</q> of the natural
passions and desires&mdash;anger, avarice, sorrow, and
the like<note place='foot'>It is, no doubt, owing
largely to the influence of Buddhism that the passion of
<emph>anger</emph> is almost unknown in Japan. In the same way,
a Japanese, though the heart were well-nigh breaking, would
consider it a most unworthy thing to let his grief betray
itself.</note>&mdash;it was possible even here to enter upon
a state of tranquillity, rest, and peace, which should
attain hereafter to more perfect fulfilment. Of the
various meanings attached to Nirvana by the
different Buddhist sects, one extreme makes it
scarcely distinguishable from complete annihilation,
while the opposite extreme introduces us to the
doctrine of the Paradise of the West, the Pure Land
presided over by Amitabha Buddha, the abode of
perfect happiness and delight. This remarkable
development of Buddhism will claim our attention
later.<note place='foot'><p>Miss Isabella Bird
(Mrs. Bishop), authoress of <hi rend='italic'>Unbeaten Tracks
in Japan</hi>, well describes the impression produced on the spectator
by the Daibutsus, or colossal images of Buddha, so common in
Japan:&mdash;<q>He is not sleeping, he is not waking, he is not acting,
he is not thinking, his consciousness is doubtful; he exists,&mdash;that is
all; his work is done, a hazy beatitude, a negation remain. This is
the Nirvana in which the devout Buddhist may aspire to participate.</q>
</p>
<p>
The Daibutsu at Kamakura, of which an illustration is given
opposite, is one of the largest in Japan. It is fifty feet high, and,
as a work of art, is without a rival. The boss protruding from the
forehead is supposed to represent a jewel, and to symbolize
Illumination.</p></note>
</p>

<p rend="text-align: center">
<figure url="images/daibatsu.png" rend="width: 100%">
  <head>Daibatsu At Kamakura.</head>
  <figDesc>Illustration.</figDesc>
</figure>
</p>

<pb n='040'/><anchor id='Pg040'/>

<p>
To return. After his enlightenment, it is said
that Gautama was seized by the temptation to
enter at once into Nirvana, without proclaiming
his doctrine to the world. But putting the temptation
from him, he began his ministry by announcing
the tidings of release to the companions of his
ascetic life, who, after scoffing for awhile, were at
length convinced. In the course of this, his first
sermon, Buddha proceeded to enunciate the eight
steps on the path which leads to Nirvana&mdash;(i) Right
faith, (ii) right resolution, (iii) right speech, (iv)
right action, (v) right living, (vi) right effort, (vii)
right thought, (viii) right self-concentration. As
time went on, Gautama began to gather round him
a number of disciples, who became his constant
companions. Part of each year he spent in rest and
retirement; teaching and training his disciples, and
receiving such as, attracted by his growing reputation,
sought him out. The remaining months he
occupied in travelling from place to place, proclaiming
the good news of deliverance in the towns
and villages through which he passed. Soon we
find him establishing a Society or Brotherhood;
the members of which severed their connexion
with all worldly things, handed over their property
to the Order, adopted the tonsure and a distinctive
dress, and, following the Master's doctrine with
strictness themselves, devoted their lives to its
propagation. Any member, however, was at
<pb n='041'/><anchor id='Pg041'/>
liberty to leave the Brotherhood, should he wish to
do so. It is noticeable that Buddha's earliest
followers were chiefly drawn&mdash;not, as in the case
of a Greater than he, from the ranks of the poor
and simple&mdash;but from the upper classes. Indeed,
Gautama seems to have regarded the weak and
ignorant as incapable of receiving his teaching.
Children are hardly mentioned in the early Buddhist
writings; and with regard to women, it was only
with great reluctance that Sakya-muni eventually
consented to the formation of a Sisterhood, the
members of which were, as far as possible, to
observe the same rules as the men&mdash;together with
several additional ones, chiefly concerned with
their subjection to the Brethren. In the same way,
it is still the teaching of Buddhism that it should
be a woman's highest aspiration to be reborn as
a man, in a future state of existence. When, however,
the two Orders&mdash;for men and for women&mdash;had
been formed, there still remained a large
number of either sex, who, without leaving their
places in the world, were desirous of being reckoned
among Buddha's followers. These were admitted
as lay-adherents, one of their chief obligations being
to contribute to the maintenance of the Brethren.
</p>

<p>
Having exercised his public ministry for forty
years&mdash;without, as would appear, encountering any
great opposition&mdash;and having committed his work
to the Brotherhood, to carry on after his decease,
<pb n='042'/><anchor id='Pg042'/>
Buddha died, aged about eighty, and was buried
with great pomp. It is recorded that, as the time
of his departure drew nigh, he replied to his disciples'
expressions of apprehension and sorrow, by
saying that when he should no longer be with
them in person, he would still be present with
them in his sayings, in his doctrine. Another point
on which he laid great stress before his death was
that the Brotherhood should regularly assemble in
convocation. Hence it came about that from very
early times, the declaration, <q>I seek refuge in
Buddha, Dharma (the Law), Samgha (the Brotherhood),</q>
was adopted as the formula which any one,
desirous of becoming a Buddhist, was required to
profess. And it is the Trinity thus formed, which,
represented to-day by the three great images above
the altar of many a Buddhist temple, has its
multitude of ignorant worshippers, who doubt not
that three several divinities are the objects of their
adoration and their prayer.
</p>

<p>
Such, then, as would appear, was the origin
of Buddhism. Strictly speaking, and apart from
its later developments, Buddhism is a religion
which knows no God, which attaches no value
to prayer, which has no place for a priesthood.
Nowhere, perhaps, is its agnosticism more conspicuous
than in the five main prohibitions, which
are addressed alike to clergy and laity. The <emph>first</emph> of
these forbids the taking of life,&mdash;human life chiefly,
<pb n='043'/><anchor id='Pg043'/>
but other life as well; the <emph>second</emph> is against theft,
whether by force or fraud; the <emph>third</emph> is against
falsehood; the <emph>fourth</emph> forbids impurity, in act,
word, or thought; the <emph>fifth</emph> requires abstinence from
all intoxicants. The whole idea of <hi rend='italic'>GOD</hi>, it will
be noticed, is entirely absent from the Buddhist
Commandments. Infinitely removed above that
other agnosticism, which cries, <q>Let us eat and
drink, for to-morrow we die,</q> Buddhism starts
with the idea of the entire abnegation of self.
But a self-denial that is undertaken, not for God,
and in God for man, but merely to secure one's
own peace and well-being&mdash;what is this but
selfishness after all? Enjoining a rule of life that
is essentially negative&mdash;the natural product of that
blank despair of the world and of human nature
which led to the Great Renunciation&mdash;Buddhism,
as a religious system, has yielded but scanty fruits
of positive holiness, of active benevolence. And
yet,&mdash;wholly inadequate as such a system as this,
even at its purest and best, must be to meet the
needs of humanity,&mdash;false and even debased as are
sometimes its teachings,&mdash;the one great message that
Buddhism proclaims is a message of undeniable, if
most imperfect, truth: the truth that would have
man cultivate self-reliance, and attain to self-deliverance
by means of self-control. <q>Work out your
own salvation</q> is the injunction of Christianity.
<q>By one's self,</q> taught Sakya-muni, <q>the evil is
<pb n='044'/><anchor id='Pg044'/>
one; by one's self must come remedy and release.</q>
So far the two systems are at one; the difference
between them lies in the fact that the one places in
our hands those supernatural weapons which alone
make real victory possible, and that these the other
knows not how to supply.
</p>

<p>
Hitherto, we have made no reference to the
relation of Buddhism to Brahmanism. And yet
we can no more hope to understand the work of
Sakya-muni, without observing its connexion
with Brahmanism, than we could afford to omit all
mention of the Jewish Law and of Jewish Pharisaism,
in speaking of the liberation wrought by our
Lord Jesus Christ. The work and doctrine of
Gautama Buddha,&mdash;with their mean between an
ascetic severity, on the one hand, and a licentious
self-indulgence on the other&mdash;their disregard of
caste distinctions&mdash;their rejection of burdensome
and profitless traditions&mdash;may be said to bear to
the heavy yoke of Brahmanism a relation not
dissimilar to that which freedom has to bondage.
Laying hold of that which was ready to his hand, if
so be he might mould and purify it, Buddha was
a liberator and reformer in respect to what had gone
before. Let us take, for example, the doctrine of
metempsychosis, or, as it is commonly called, the
<q>transmigration of souls.</q> No doubt, there is
a great deal connected with this doctrine in the
Buddhist books that cannot but appear to us
<pb n='045'/><anchor id='Pg045'/>
puerile and shocking; but still, we do not well,
we do not justly, if, as do so many, we fasten such
strange fancies on Buddha, or on Buddhism, as
though it were from these that they sprang. So
far from Sakya-muni being the originator of the
theory of transmigration, a belief in it had, for
centuries previously, been almost universal throughout
the East; and his doctrine of Nirvana supplied
an antidote to the belief in a practically interminable
series of metempsychoses current at the
time. With the theory of transmigration accepted
on all sides, Buddha seems to have made use of
it to the extent that he did, as affording a convenient
solution of the difficulty presented by the unequal
distribution of happiness in this life, and the absence
of any satisfactory exercise of justice in the way of
reward or punishment.
</p>

<p>
That the doctrine of metempsychosis should have
been applied by Buddhists to their great Master
himself, is only what we should expect to find.
Gautama is accredited by Buddhists with some
five hundred previous existences, in the course
of which he passed through numerous stages of
vegetable, animal and human life, until at length
he attained to the highest degree of manhood.
Throughout the changing circumstances of his
being, he is said to have exhibited a transcendent
and ever-increasing unselfishness and charity,
which culminated in his freely giving himself to
<pb n='046'/><anchor id='Pg046'/>
be re-born as Buddha for the world's deliverance.
And it is this belief, probably, which has been
the most potent factor in exalting the Philosopher
and the Guide to a height, which is scarcely,
if at all, distinguishable from the Throne of God.
</p>

<p>
I may conclude this chapter by quoting a passage
from the late Dean Stanley's <hi rend='italic'>History of the Jewish
Church</hi>, where he is referring to Gautama Buddha:
<q>It is difficult for those who believe the permanent
elements of the Jewish and Christian religion to
be universal and Divine not to hail these corresponding
forms of truth and goodness elsewhere, or
to recognize that the mere appearance of such
saint-like and god-like characters in other parts
of the earth, if not directly preparing the way for
a greater manifestation, illustrates that manifestation
by showing how mighty has been the
witness borne to it even under circumstances of
such discouragement, and even with effects inadequate
to their grandeur.</q><note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>History
of the Jewish Church</hi>, Vol. iii, Lecture xlv.</note>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='047'/><anchor id='Pg047'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>III. Buddhism In Japan.</head>

<p>
In the last Chapter we sketched in outline the life
and teaching of Gautama Buddha; omitting the
many fanciful legends that have gathered round
his name, and confining ourselves to what would
be accepted by Buddhists generally. Of the long
period that divides the death of Sakya-muni from
the introduction of Buddhism into Japan about
550 <hi rend='smallcaps'>a.d.</hi>, it is no part of our purpose to treat
in detail. But enough must be said to connect in
some intelligible way these two events.
</p>

<p>
After the death of Gautama, his disciples are
said to have gathered together, and recited all
that they remembered of his teaching, arranging
it in three divisions. This was the origin of the
sacred books known as the <foreign rend='italic'>Tripitaca</foreign>, i.e. the
<q>three baskets,</q> the <q>three receptacles.</q> The
first of these&mdash;consisting of sayings, aphorisms,
parables, &amp;c., attributed to Buddha, together with
his first sermon addressed to the ascetics, (the
<q>Wheel of the Law,</q>)&mdash;is known as the <foreign rend='italic'>Sutra</foreign> or
<q>Canon;</q> the second is called the <foreign rend='italic'>Vinaya</foreign> or
<q>Book of Discipline;</q> and the third, the
<foreign rend='italic'>Abhidharma</foreign>,
<pb n='048'/><anchor id='Pg048'/>
i.e. the <q>Book of Metaphysics,</q> the
<q>Further Doctrine.</q> Of the three books, the
Sutra, being mainly ethical, would have a more
general application than the other two; while the
Vinaya would be chiefly applicable to the Brotherhood,
and the Abhidharma concerned with abstruse
philosophical dissertations. The Tripitaca, of which
the Buddhists of Ceylon are the custodians, are
written in Pali, an early modification of Sanskrit,
and the sacred language of Buddhism; and they
are, undoubtedly, the oldest and purest of the
numerous Buddhist scriptures. The Sutra, in
particular, is believed to be a faithful record of
the actual teaching of Gautama. At the same
time, it must be remembered that for some centuries
after Sakya-muni's death, there is no proof of the
existence of any written Canon; the probability
being that his teaching was, for the most part,
transmitted orally from generation to generation,
and that it underwent in the process considerable
alteration and addition.
</p>

<p>
With regard to the history of Buddhism, from
the time of its founder's death until the middle of
the third century <hi rend='smallcaps'>b.c.</hi>, we are practically without
information. It appears, however, that parties and
schools were already beginning to be formed. But
about 260 <hi rend='smallcaps'>b.c.</hi>, India, from being divided into
a number of petty kingdoms, became almost wholly
united under the rule of one Asoka. Asoka's
<pb n='049'/><anchor id='Pg049'/>
grandfather&mdash;the founder of the empire that was
soon to assume such vast proportions&mdash;had revenged
himself for the contempt in which, for his
low birth, he was held by the Brahmans, by
patronizing Buddhism; and Asoka, in turn,
bestowed upon it all possible support. He made
Buddhism the state religion, founded an immense
number of monasteries, and sent forth missionaries
in all directions. China was one of the countries
visited; while a mission to Ceylon, in which
Mahendra, Asoka's own son, took a prominent part,
resulted in the conversion of the whole island.
</p>

<p>
Shortly, however, after Asoka's death, his empire
collapsed, and Buddhism never afterwards exerted
the same influence in India; though it remained
widely prevalent until the eighth century <hi rend='smallcaps'>a.d.</hi>,
and it was not until four centuries later that
it became practically extinct. The Brahmans now
regained their former ascendency; declared Gautama
to be an <q>avatar</q>&mdash;or incarnation&mdash;of their
god Vishnu; proceeded to incorporate into their
own creed some of the most popular features of
the Buddhist system; and then entered upon
a destruction of the monasteries, and a severe
persecution of all Buddhists living in India. But,
as in the history of the Christian Church, persecution
only resulted in the Gospel being afforded
a wider area, so was it now with Buddhism. <q>They
that were scattered abroad went everywhere,
<pb n='050'/><anchor id='Pg050'/>
preaching the word.</q> Among other countries to
which the doctrine of Sakya-muni penetrated
was Cashmere, whose king, Kanishka, a contemporary
of Christ, extended to it his enthusiastic
support.
</p>

<p>
At this point was reached an important crisis
in the history of Buddhism. Already controversies
about discipline and various minor questions had
called into existence several different schools; but
now a breach occurred, of such magnitude and
destined to prove so lasting in its results, as
to often have suggested comparison with the
schism between Western and Eastern Christendom.
A council was held under king Kanishka, which
the Ceylon Buddhists refused to recognize; and
from that time Buddhism has been divided into
two main branches, known as the <foreign rend='italic'>Mahayana</foreign> and
<foreign rend='italic'>Hinayana</foreign>,&mdash;the <q>Greater and Lesser Vehicles.</q>
The division thus brought about became, to a great
extent, a geographical one; the Hinayana having
its home in Ceylon, and, somewhat less exclusively,
in Burmah and Siam, while the schools of the
Mahayana predominate in Cashmere, Thibet, China
and Japan.
</p>

<p>
Let us glance, for a moment, at their respective
characteristics. The Hinayana and the Mahayana,
then, are the names given to two great systems, or
<q>schools of thought,</q> which offer to <q>carry</q> or
<q>convey</q> their followers to the rest of Nirvana.
</p>

<pb n='051'/><anchor id='Pg051'/>

<p>
Of the two, the Hinayana, or Lesser Conveyance,
presents a much closer resemblance to early
Buddhism. The distinguishing features of the
Hinayana may be declared to be its adherence to
the strict morality of primitive Buddhism, its
greater simplicity of worship, its smaller Canon of
scripture, and the fact that it appeals rather to the
comparatively few, to those, that is to say, who are
able and willing to make the surrender it requires.
Whereas, in the Mahayana, or Greater Vehicle, we
see a system characterized by that increased ease
and laxity, which too often accompany a season of
repose and the cessation of the enthusiasm that
attends the establishment of a new movement.
The chief features of the Mahayana may be
pronounced to be its less exacting standard of
practical morality, its willingness to descend to the
level of the multitude, its subtle metaphysical
distinctions, its meditative inactivity, its elaborate
ceremonial, and its more extensive Canon of
scripture.
</p>

<p>
We are now, at last, in a position to examine the
history of Japanese Buddhism. If an apology
seems needed for the length of our digression,
I can only say that it appeared to me necessary for
any profitable treatment of our subject. We have
already seen how, as early as 250 <hi rend='smallcaps'>b.c.</hi>, China was
visited by Buddhist missionaries from India.
These are said to have been eighteen in number;
<pb n='052'/><anchor id='Pg052'/>
and their effigies may be seen in many a Chinese
temple, where they are held in great veneration.
In the first century <hi rend='smallcaps'>a.d.</hi>, Buddhism in China
began to receive imperial patronage; some of its
books being about the same time translated into
the language of the country. The spirit of accommodation
and adaptation, which has always formed
so conspicuous a feature of Buddhism, manifested
itself now in an association with Taouism which
has continued ever since.
</p>

<p>
552 <hi rend='smallcaps'>a.d.</hi> is the date assigned to the introduction
of Buddhism into Japan, by way of Korea. At
first, it appears to have made little progress, until
the diplomatic action of one of its clergy brought it
into favour with the Court. Prostrating himself
one day, before the little son of the Mikado, the
priest declared that he recognized in him the
re-incarnation of one of the disciples of Buddha,
and one who was destined to effect a great spiritual
work in Japan. The Mikado was prevailed upon
to confide the boy's education to the Buddhist
priests; with the result that, when he grew up, he
supported their cause with such zeal as to cause
him to be sometimes spoken of as the <q>Constantine
of Japanese Buddhism.</q> Shotoku Taishi&mdash;for such
was his name&mdash;acted for some time as regent, but
never himself ascended the throne.
</p>

<p>
There is no doubt that the progress of Buddhism
in Japan was largely facilitated by the adoption of
<pb n='053'/><anchor id='Pg053'/>
tactics, which had been successfully employed in
dealing with the barbarous tribes of India, and&mdash;as
we have just noticed,&mdash;with China also. Indeed,
its readiness to adapt itself to the circumstances,
instincts, and prejudices of the people, with whom
it has to do, is, as has already been implied, one of
the most powerful and most striking peculiarities
of Buddhism. In Japan, the Shinto demi-gods were
Buddhaized, and declared to be manifestations of
Gautama; while practices borrowed from the
ancient national creed were introduced into the
Buddhist ceremonial. In the eighth century, we
find orders issued for the erection of two temples
and a pagoda in every province; until, about the
twelfth century, the two religions became associated
in the manner indicated in our first chapter,&mdash;Buddhist
and Shinto clergy officiating by turns in
the same buildings, and the Shinto temples becoming
filled with images, alike of their own demi-gods,
and of Buddha and his companions. This state of
things continued until 1868, when the Shinto cult
was chosen to receive the exclusive recognition of
the State, many of the Buddhist monasteries at the
same time suffering spoliation. Within the last
few years, however, Buddhism has been making
strenuous efforts to recover its former power and
position, and there is little doubt that it still exerts
a real influence in Japan; while the collapse of
Shintoism is, as certainly, a matter of no distant
<pb n='054'/><anchor id='Pg054'/>
time. At Tokio, the capital, where the number of
temples is enormous, the proportion of Buddhist to
Shinto is in the ratio of ten to one; and on several
occasions during my stay in Japan I noticed handsome
new Buddhist temples in course of erection,
or old ones being redecorated and restored.
On the other hand, numbers are closed, or falling
to pieces, for want of funds to maintain them.
</p>

<p>
At the present time, there are some twelve or
more <emph>principal</emph> Buddhist sects in Japan, several of
these being subdivided. The distinction between
the various schools is much more closely preserved
than in China; and, at least in the larger cities,
each sect will be found represented by a temple
of its own. The difference between the schools
consists not only in the varied attitudes adopted
towards some controverted question, but frequently
also in the degrees of importance attached to some
point which is held by all in common. For,
as cannot be too emphatically stated, Buddhism
is a <emph>many-sided</emph> religion.<note place='foot'>This
is scarcely less true of Christianity; and it <emph>must</emph> be true,
in some measure, of every religious system which attempts to minister
to the needs of beings, so differently constituted, and so dissimilarly
circumstanced, as are the members of the human race. As we
proceed in this chapter to refer to the various schools of Buddhism
and their characteristics, we can hardly fail to have suggested to us,
more than once, those different aspects of Christianity, which have
been the occasion of all our <q>schools of thought,</q> and, alas, of how
many of our divisions!</note> The following extract
from Sir Monier Williams' <hi rend='italic'>Buddhism</hi>, for instance,
<pb n='055'/><anchor id='Pg055'/>
draws attention to the variety of aspects, from
which it may, and indeed needs to be regarded
by the student.
</p>

<p>
<q>In different places and at different times, its
teaching has become both negative and positive,
agnostic and gnostic. It passes from apparent
atheism and materialism to theism, polytheism, and
spiritualism. It is, under one aspect, mere pessimism;
under another, pure philanthropy; under
another, monastic communion; under another, high
morality; under another, a variety of materialistic
philosophy; under another, simple demonology;
under another, a mere farrago of superstitions,
including necromancy, witchcraft, idolatry, and
fetishism. In some form or other it may be held
with almost any religion, and embraces something
from almost every creed.</q>
</p>

<p>
To the same effect writes Dr. Eitel in his
<hi rend='italic'>Lectures on Buddhism</hi> (pp. 1-2): <q>Buddhism is
a system of vast magnitude, for it comprises the
earliest gropings after science throughout those
various branches of knowledge which our Western
nations have long been accustomed to divide for
separate study. It embodies in one living structure
grand and peculiar views of physical science, refined
and subtle theorems on abstract metaphysics,
an edifice of fanciful mysticism, a most elaborate
and far-reaching system of practical morality, and
finally a church organization as broad in its principles
<pb n='056'/><anchor id='Pg056'/>
and as finely wrought in its most intricate
network as any in the world.</q>
</p>

<p>
It would hardly be worth while to attempt
any detailed description of the many Buddhist
sects represented in Japan. To observe the main
characteristics of the principal ones, and their
points of difference from one another, will be amply
sufficient for our purpose. The greater number of
the schools were introduced from China, but a few
are Japanese developments.
</p>

<p>
Let us take, first of all, the schools of the
Hinayana, or Minor Vehicle, which, as we should
expect, is not extensively represented in Japan.
The Hinayana is represented by four philosophical
schools, in two of which the materialistic element
predominates, and in the two other the idealistic;
while eschatological questions afford further ground
for difference. The points in dispute between these
philosophical schools of Buddhism are altogether so
subtle and abstruse as to be extremely difficult of
comprehension to any not thoroughly versed in
such distinctions. Of the four sects referred to, one,
called the <foreign rend='italic'>Kusha</foreign>, has for its characteristic the fact
that it bases its teaching on the Abhidharma Pitaca.
</p>

<p>
To the Minor Vehicle belongs the curious system
known as the <q>Holy Path.</q> This has been described
as a <q>debtor and creditor account kept with
divine justice.</q> Much less common than in China,
the system of the <q>Holy Path</q> is yet widely
<pb n='057'/><anchor id='Pg057'/>
practised in Japan. Elaborate tables are drawn up,
containing a list of all good and bad actions it is
possible to perform, with the numbers added which
each counts on the side of merit or demerit. The
numbers range from one to a hundred, or even
more; and the tables afford an insight into the
relative importance in which all kinds of actions
present themselves to the Oriental mind. He who
would tread life's journey along the Holy Path
must, at least, aim at setting off his bad deeds
by a corresponding number of good acts of equal
value. At the end of each year, the account is
balanced, and the overplus or deficit is transferred
to the succeeding one. That such a system is
liable to the gravest abuse, especially in the case of
the more ignorant, is obvious; though, when conscientiously
practised, it need not be supposed to
be unproductive of good.<note place='foot'>Those who
would investigate the subject further are referred to
Alabaster's <hi rend='italic'>The Modern Buddhist</hi> (Trübner, 1870).</note>
</p>

<p>
At present we have made no mention of the
<foreign rend='italic'>Madhyameka</foreign>, or Middle Vehicle, which, as its
name implies, occupies an intermediate place between
the Greater and Lesser Conveyances. A
compromise between these two great systems,
the Madhyameka may be said to be characterized
by a marked moderation, i.e. between an excessive
strictness, on the one hand, and a too great liberty
on the other. But though it is thus a faithful
<pb n='058'/><anchor id='Pg058'/>
exponent of Sakya-muni's original doctrine, the
Madhyameka has never attracted any extensive
following. It is represented in Japan by the sect
called the <foreign lang='ja' rend='italic'>Sanron</foreign>.
</p>

<p>
We pass on to examine the schools of the Greater
Vehicle. In the same way that the Kusha sect
regards as its chief authority the Abhidharma
Pitaca, there are two schools belonging to the
Greater Vehicle, which base their teaching on the
Sutra and Vinaya Pitacas respectively. The <foreign rend='italic'>Kagon</foreign>
make the parables and sayings of Buddha contained
in the Sutra their especial study; while
the <foreign rend='italic'>Ritzu</foreign>, as adhering to the more ascetic side of
Buddhism, have for their favourite book the Vinaya,
or <q>Discipline.</q>
</p>

<p>
The <foreign rend='italic'>Dhyana</foreign> or <foreign rend='italic'>Zen</foreign>
sect is a Chinese school with numerous sub-divisions. Its distinguishing
feature is the prominence it assigns to the life of
contemplation. Mysticism is represented by the
<foreign rend='italic'>Shingon</foreign>, the Mantra school of India transferred
through China to Japan; and also by the <foreign rend='italic'>Tendai</foreign>,
so called from a mountain in China, where the
head-quarters of the sect are situated. The temples
of the Shingon may usually be recognized by the
two guardian figures at the entrance, with open
and shut mouths, suggesting the mystic syllable
A-UM. A peculiarity of both of these sects is the
use of the prayer-wheels and cylinders so common
in Thibet.
</p>

<pb n='059'/><anchor id='Pg059'/>

<p>
An element of mysticism also pervades the
influential <foreign rend='italic'>Hokkai</foreign> sect, a Japanese offshoot of
the Tendai, founded in the thirteenth century by
a priest named Nichiren, who is said to have been
born supernaturally of a virgin mother. The
Hokkai are most jealously attached to their own
ritual, and to other observances peculiar to themselves;
and, inheriting the disposition attributed to
their founder, exhibit a narrowness and intolerance
rarely met with in Japan. Their characteristic
may be said to consist in an emotional fanaticism;
and a visitor to one of their temples will generally
find a number of devotees,&mdash;who thus remain engaged
for hours at a time,&mdash;chanting the invocation
of the sect, <q>Adoration to the Lotus of the Law,</q>
to a deafening accompaniment of drums.
</p>

<p>
Two sects only now remain, but these by no
means the least interesting or least popular: the
<foreign rend='italic'>Jodo</foreign> and the <foreign rend='italic'>Shin-Jodo</foreign>
(i.e. the New-Jodo). The
distinguishing features of these sects,&mdash;which also
find a place in the system of the Hokkai,&mdash;are
their acknowledgement of the need of external aid,
and their doctrine of the Western Paradise, presided
over by Amitabha Buddha. How marked a
departure from the original teaching of Sakya-muni,
as observed by us, these schools present is sufficiently
obvious; nevertheless, it is alleged that
the revelation of the Paradise in the West was first
made by Buddha himself to one of his principal
<pb n='060'/><anchor id='Pg060'/>
disciples. In the distant West is said to dwell one
named Amida, or Amitabha, that is to say <q>Illimitable
Light.</q> Immortal himself, immortal also and
freed from all the trammels of transmigration are
the vast multitudes of men<note place='foot'>For it is men only
who inhabit this Celestial Region: women, worthy of attaining to it,
have changed their sex.</note> who inhabit the boundless
regions which he rules. In that <q>Pure
Land,</q><note place='foot'><foreign rend='italic'>Jodo</foreign> means the
<q>Pure Land.</q></note>
that <q>Undefiled Ground,</q> everything beautiful
and enchanting has a place, neither is pain or
sorrow known; and thither nought that is evil or
that defileth can come. Whosoever would attain
to this heavenly country must rely, most of all, on
faithful invocation of the name of Amida; he
having, as is recorded, made a vow that he would
only accept Buddhahood on condition that salvation
should be placed within reach of all sincerely
desirous of achieving it. Such is the doctrine of
the Western Paradise, some of the descriptions of
which read almost like echoes of the last chapters
of the Bible. Unknown to the Buddhism of Ceylon,
Siam, and Burmah, it can be traced back as far as
the second century <hi rend='smallcaps'>a.d.</hi>, when it was certainly
known in Cashmere, though it was not until three
centuries later that it began to spread widely over
Northern Buddhism. But the whole question of
its origin remains wrapped in obscurity. At the
present day, the devotion to Amida is very widely
<pb n='061'/><anchor id='Pg061'/>
practised in Japan, and it is extremely popular. No
doubt, the more educated and intellectual Buddhist,&mdash;and
the distinction thus suggested needs constantly
to be insisted on,&mdash;would explain the
Paradise of the West as being a mere allegory, and
regard Amitabha, as he was originally conceived
to be, as merely an ideal personification of boundless
light. But to the people generally the Undefiled
Ground and its presiding deity are actual,
literal, realities.
</p>

<p rend="text-align: center">
<figure url="images/kiyomizu-dera.png" rend="width: 100%">
  <head>Kiyomizu-Dera, Kyoto.</head>
  <figDesc>Illustration.</figDesc>
</figure>
</p>

<p>
We have said that the two sects in which the
doctrine of the Western Paradise appears in greatest
prominence are called the Jodo and Shin-Jodo.
The former of these is Chinese in origin, but was
established in Japan about 1200 <hi rend='smallcaps'>a.d.</hi> by a priest,
Enko Daishi by name, who was also a member of
the imperial family. The head-quarters of this sect
are at Kyoto, where the magnificent monastery of
Chion-in forms one of the principal sights of that
most interesting of Japanese cities. But of all the
temples of Japan, those of the New-Jodo (or <foreign rend='italic'>Monto</foreign>)
sect are at once the most handsome, the most frequented,
and the most attractive to the European
traveller. Everything here, too, is of a dignified
and stately character; there is a striking absence
of the tawdry and the puerile. Founded in the
year 1262, this sect is, at the present day, foremost
in learning, influence, and activity. Another purely
Japanese development, it is&mdash;owing to differences
<pb n='062'/><anchor id='Pg062'/>
about <q>church government</q>&mdash;composed of two sub-divisions,
the <foreign rend='italic'>Nishi-Hongwanji</foreign> and the
<foreign rend='italic'>Higashi-Hongwanji</foreign>,
or the Eastern and Western Divisions
of the True Petition,&mdash;the reference being to the
vow of Amida. In most of the larger towns,
handsome temples of either branch are to be found,
situated usually in the poorer districts.
</p>

<p>
It is in the temples of the Shin-Jodo that the
remarkable similarity, of which every one has heard,
between the Buddhist ceremonial and that of the
Roman Church is most conspicuous. Nowhere,
perhaps, did the resemblance in question,&mdash;to which
I shall have occasion to refer again,&mdash;impress me
more forcibly than it did in the New-Jodo temple
at Nagasaki, at the first Buddhist service at which
I was ever present. The day of our visit chanced
to be the founder's anniversary, and from a raised
lectern in the chancel, a venerable priest, of benign
countenance,&mdash;wearing a rich vestment not unlike
a dalmatic, and a cap resembling a biretta,&mdash;was
recounting to a congregation, composed chiefly of
women, old men, and children, the virtues of their
deceased benefactor. Presently, the sermon came
to an end, and the colloquial delivery of the discourse
was changed for the monotone of a litany
recitation: the people answering with ready response,
and many of them employing the aid of
their rosaries. The fragrance of incense filled the
air; tapers and flowers adorned the altar, above
<pb n='063'/><anchor id='Pg063'/>
which was the statue, not&mdash;as one entering by
chance might almost have expected to see&mdash;of
a Christian saint, but of some manifestation of
Gautama Buddha. Despite, however, its elaborate
ritual, the Shin-Jodo sect has been called the
<q>Protestantism of Japan;</q> the reason being that it
sanctions the marriage of its clergy, approves the
reading of the scriptures in the <q>vulgar tongue,</q>
permits a wider freedom in respect to food and
drink, and affords other indications of a <q>reforming
spirit.</q> The priesthood in this sect is, practically,
a hereditary office.
</p>

<p>
In the <hi rend='italic'>Great Indian Religions</hi> of the late
Mr. Bettany, there is given a summary of the Shin-Jodo
Belief, in the words of one of its principal
teachers. I will take the liberty of re-quoting it
here. <q>Rejecting all religious austerities and other
action, giving up all idea of self-power, we rely
upon Amida Buddha with the whole heart for our
salvation in the future life, which is the most
important thing: believing that at the moment of
putting our faith in Amida Buddha our salvation
is settled. From that moment invocation of his
name is observed as an expression of gratitude and
thankfulness for Buddha's mercy. Moreover, being
thankful for the reception of this doctrine from the
founder and succeeding chief priests whose teachings
were so benevolent, and as welcome as light in
a dark night, we must also keep the laws which
<pb n='064'/><anchor id='Pg064'/>
are fixed for our duty during our whole life.</q> The
mutual relation of faith and works is especially to
be noticed; and indeed the strikingly <emph>evangelical</emph>
character of the whole Confession.
</p>

<p rend="text-align: center">
<figure url="images/kwannon.png" rend="width: 100%">
  <head>Statues of Kwannon, San-Ju-San-Gen-Do.</head>
  <figDesc>Illustration.</figDesc>
</figure>
</p>

<p>
Vast, however, as is the power attributed to
Amitabha, and great as is the merit to be acquired
by the invocation of his name, there is found in
the temples in which he is worshipped an image
which receives even more veneration than his.
That colossal female effigy, with the many heads
and countless hands, before which a number of
votaries, composed largely of women, are kneeling
in prayer, is meant to represent the mighty Avalokitesvara,
or&mdash;to substitute for the Sanskrit the
less formidable titles by which she is known in
China and Japan,&mdash;the all-powerful Kwanyin or
Kwannon. Here, again, we are confronted with
a devotion the origin of which is wrapped in
uncertainty, but which, closely connected with the
doctrine of the Western Paradise, seems to have
arisen some three centuries after the commencement
of our era. At the present day, it is spread
extensively over Thibet, Mongolia, China, and
Japan; but it is unknown to the countries of
Southern Buddhism. With regard to the meaning
of this great image before us, Kwannon is commonly
explained to be the reflex or spiritual son of
Amitabha Buddha, sent by him to earth to preside
on earth over the Buddhist faith, and appearing, at
<pb n='065'/><anchor id='Pg065'/>
first in male and subsequently in female shape.
But the probability is that the various personages,
with whom Kwannon is supposed to be identified,
had merely a fictitious existence; and that in her
statues, we see simply an apotheosis of Mercy, an
allegorical <foreign lang='la' rend='italic'>Mater Misericordiae</foreign>, whose many
eyes and hands are intended to signify the unremitting
vigilance and the untiring energy with which she
ministers to all sorrow and distress.<note place='foot'>Avalokitesvara=<q>The
Lord who looks down from heaven.</q>
The female form taking the place of the male is, no doubt, due to
the idea of the woman's being supposed to be the more compassionate
nature; just as, too often in the Christian Church, the Blessed Mother
has, for a like reason, been made to encroach upon the prerogatives
of her Divine Son. Instances are recorded of the Chinese, when
conversing with Europeans, giving the name of <foreign rend='italic'>Kwanyin</foreign>
to the statues of the Blessed Virgin in the Roman Churches. (Davis' <hi rend='italic'>The
Chinese</hi>, chap, xiv.)</note>
</p>

<p>
The island of Pootau, off Ning-po, in the Chusan
Archipelago, is the great centre of Kwannon
worship; the most popular of the many legends
concerning her associating her with this locality,
and offering an explanation of her thousand heads
and hands more clumsy even than is the manner
of such myths. The island belongs to the Buddhist
priesthood, and is a great resort of pilgrims. In
Japan, the shrines and statues of Kwannon are to
be met with everywhere: many of her images being
of enormous size, richly gilt and beautifully
wrought. Sometimes the statues are kept concealed
from view, either on account of alleged
<pb n='066'/><anchor id='Pg066'/>
miraculous properties, or for some other reason of
special sanctity. The highly-venerated image, for
instance, at the Asakusa temple, Tokio, is never
shown; it is only two inches high, and is accredited
with supernatural qualities. But of all
the shrines of Kwannon, it may be doubted whether
the impression created by any is greater than by
her temple of San-ju-san-gen-do at Kyoto, where
no less than 33,333 images of the goddess may be
seen. Of these a thousand are gilded statues, five feet
in height, and ranged in tiers along a vast gallery.
The remaining effigies are depicted on the foreheads,
hands and nimbi of the larger ones. The
temple and its contents originated in the votive
offering of a Mikado of the twelfth century for
recovery from sickness.
</p>

<p rend="text-align: center">
<figure url="images/altar.png" rend="width: 100%">
  <head>The Altar of San-Ju-San-Gen-Do.</head>
  <figDesc>Illustration.</figDesc>
</figure>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='067'/><anchor id='Pg067'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>IV. Buddhism And Christianity.</head>

<p rend="text-align: center">
<figure url="images/guardian-nio.png" rend="width: 100%">
  <head>Guardian Nio.</head>
  <figDesc>Illustration.</figDesc>
</figure>
</p>

<p>
The Buddhist temples in Japan are for the
most part built on a much grander and more
elaborate scale than those belonging to the Shinto
worship. The roofing is not of thatch, but of
tiles; and instead of the torii, the entrance is
through a <foreign lang='ja' rend='italic'>Sammon</foreign>, or two-storied gateway, in
the recesses of which stand two huge figures of ferocious
appearance. These are called <foreign lang='ja' rend='italic'>Nio</foreign>, and their
office is to guard the sacred precincts from the approach
of evil spirits. These images are commonly seen
spotted all over with pellets of paper. <q>A worshipper
writes his petition on paper, or better still,
has it written for him by the priest, chews it to
a pulp, and spits it at the divinity. If, having
been well aimed, the paper sticks, it is a good
omen.</q> Passing through the Sammon, and proceeding
in a straight direction&mdash;often between
rows of votive stone-lanterns&mdash;the visitor soon
arrives at the two largest buildings of the temple
group. One of these is the <foreign lang='ja' rend='italic'>Hondo</foreign>, or main
shrine; while the other may be either the Hall of the
Founder of the particular sect to which the Temple
<pb n='068'/><anchor id='Pg068'/>
belongs, or it may contain a colossal image of
Amida, and be specially dedicated to his worship.
Sometimes, again, this second building is known as
the Refectory, from the spiritual nourishment
supplied there in the form of sermons, for which
the preacher takes as his text some passage of the
Sutra, or, it may be, some saying of Confucius.<note place='foot'>I have
not thought it necessary in this little volume to introduce
the subject of Confucianism. Even in China it is less a religion
than a system of philosophy&mdash;political, social, moral. It may, however,
be remarked that the writings of Confucius are highly esteemed
in Japan, and that, in the past at any rate, they have had a considerable
influence in forming the thought and character of its people.
The ethics of Confucius being materialistic, i.e. concerned with the
things of this present life, and the Buddhist ethics being mainly
spiritualistic, the two mutually supplement each other. The great
Confucian Temple at Yeddo was until 1868 the chief University of
Japan. Now,&mdash;so entirely have the Western systems of education
supplanted the teaching of the Chinese sage,&mdash;the building has been
converted into a Museum.</note>
Removing our boots, which we leave at the foot of
the wooden steps, we ascend to the Hondo, and, if
need be, push aside the sliding-doors of paper-covered
woodwork, which afford access to the
building. Should no service chance to be in progress,
a little company of priests, acolytes, &amp;c., will
probably be found, seated on the matting with
which the floor is covered,&mdash;engaged in the perusal
of book or newspaper, or chatting together over
miniature cups of tea, and, if it be winter-time,
spreading their hands to receive the grateful
warmth of the hibachi.<note place='foot'>Charcoal-brazier.</note> Beside them, on the
<pb n='069'/><anchor id='Pg069'/>
floor, is arranged a miscellaneous assortment
of sacred pictures, leaflets, candles, incense-sticks,
charms, and other articles; any of which may be
purchased by a very modest expenditure. As we
enter, we observe that several pairs of eyes are
fastened on us in undisguised curiosity; but our
low salutation is promptly responded to, if indeed it
has not been anticipated, and one of the group
will courteously come forward to supply us with
any assistance or information we require. Before
the railing, which encloses the sanctuary, two or
three worshippers are kneeling in prayer; and
these also examine us for a while with close
attention. Or, it may be that at the time of our
visit some religious function is proceeding. If so,
the clergy with their servers are found within the
chancel, clad in gorgeous yellow robes, and genuflecting
now and again before the images which
stand above the richly-vested altar. Outside the
sanctuary rails, the congregation is assembled in
greater or less numbers, according to the importance
of the day. Around is a profusion of lights
and flowers; while the air is fragrant with the
fumes of incense. The prayers, which the officiating
priest recites in monotone, are in Pali, a form of
Sanskrit; and if an air of perfunctoriness pervades
his devotions, let it be remembered that every day,
month after month, and year after year, he may be
found chanting these same litanies, of the significance
<pb n='070'/><anchor id='Pg070'/>
of which he has but the vaguest idea. Not,
however, that he is without belief in their efficacy;
nay, it may be that his very ignorance of their
meaning causes the words he utters to have, in his
eyes, a transcendent value. Above the high altar,
in seated posture on lotus-blossoms,<note place='foot'><q>The
only reason I can ascertain for the constant recurrence of
the lotus in Buddhist art and ceremonial is the idea of its being the
symbol of purity. Its scent and aspect are alike delightful, and
though rooted in mud and slime it abhors all defilement. If, therefore,
men would but take it as their model, they would escape all the
contamination of this corrupt world. Every man, it is said, has
a lotus in his bosom, which will blossom forth if he call in the assistance
of Buddha.</q> <hi rend='italic'>Unbeaten Tracks in Japan</hi>, Vol. i. p.
292.</note> are three
colossal images, cunningly wrought and richly
gilded, and bearing on their countenances an expression
of placid repose. Perhaps, it is the <foreign rend='italic'>Triratna</foreign>,
or Three Jewels, that these represent, the Trinity of
Buddha, the Law, and the Order. Or, possibly,
this is Buddha, in his triple forms of existence:&mdash;as
Sakya-muni, the form under which he lived as
man among men; as Amitabha, his metaphysical
existence in Nirvana; as Avalokitesvara, his reflex
in the world of forms, his spiritual son, generated
to propagate the religion established by him during
his earthly career. Or once again, these three
images may portray the Buddhas of the Past,
Present, and Future:&mdash;Gautama who <emph>was</emph>, the
historic founder of Buddhism; Kwannon, or
Avalokitesvara, the head of the present Buddhist
hierarchy, the Buddha who <emph>is</emph>; and Maitreya, or
<pb n='071'/><anchor id='Pg071'/>
Meroku, the deliverer yet <emph>to come</emph>, the rehabilitation
of past Buddhas foretold by Sakya-muni. Now
and again one may meet with a Buddhist of
superior intellectual attainments, who would explain
the acts of worship he offers to these images,
as signifying merely reverence for Gautama's
teaching; but to the multitude, as has been seen
already, the images represent distinct and all-powerful
deities. Indeed, the people are encouraged
thus to regard them by their ecclesiastical
superiors; it being one of the methods of Buddhism
thus to adapt its teaching to the capacity of dense
and ignorant minds. And thus it comes about
that a religion, commencing with agnosticism, meets
the <q>craving for divinity,</q> so deeply implanted in
the nature of our race, by passing into what is,
practically, a deification of humanity.
</p>

<p rend="text-align: center">
<figure url="images/pagoda.png" rend="width: 100%">
  <head>Pagoda at Nikko.</head>
  <figDesc>Illustration.</figDesc>
</figure>
</p>

<p>
Leaving the Hondo, we next proceed to explore
the grounds and remaining buildings connected
with the temple. This lofty <foreign rend='italic'>Pagoda</foreign>, for instance,
several stories high, is erected over some holy relic,&mdash;perhaps
the vitrified remains of the founder,
after cremation. A little further on, we come
to the <foreign rend='italic'>Rinzo</foreign>, or Revolving Library, containing an
entire set of the Buddhist scriptures. As these
consist altogether of some 6,700 or 6,800 large
volumes, it is clearly impossible for any one person
to read them all. This, however, need not be
regretted seeing that whatever merit might be
<pb n='072'/><anchor id='Pg072'/>
obtained by a complete perusal, is freely extended
to all, who will take the trouble to make this huge
stand revolve; the structure being so arranged
that a single push is sufficient for the purpose!
The Rinzo was an invention of a Chinese priest,
and is said to date from the sixth century. Owing
to their costliness they are rarely met with; and
the only two I remember seeing were at Asakusa,
Tokio, and at Ikegami, the head-quarters of
the Hokkai sect. Elsewhere in the grounds we
come upon the <foreign rend='italic'>Shoro</foreign>, or Great Bell,&mdash;used not
for summoning the faithful, but for the purpose of
invocation and worship;&mdash;the <foreign rend='italic'>Koro</foreign>, or Drum-tower;
the <foreign rend='italic'>Emado</foreign>, or <q>Ex-voto</q> Shed, the walls of which
are covered with pictures, charms, and other
offerings; cisterns for the purpose of ceremonial
purification; a printing and publishing department;
and, perhaps, a grotto with ghastly representations
of the sufferings endured in the Buddhist hells.
Usually, too, to be found in the sacred precincts, is
a specimen of the <foreign lang='la' rend='italic'>Ficus religiosa</foreign>, or sacred
tree, under which Sakya-muni attained his enlightenment.
At the rear of the temple buildings are
situated the priests' apartments,&mdash;often a quadrangle
enclosed by a colonnade,&mdash;the reception-rooms
of which are beautifully decorated with
<foreign rend='italic'>kakemonos</foreign>. Here the visitor is sometimes invited
to a light repast of tea, cake, and fruit; the
priests waiting on him the while with the most
<pb n='073'/><anchor id='Pg073'/>
courteous attention. And here may I be permitted
to say a word about the Buddhist priests of Japan
as I found them? They are commonly spoken
of as lazy and ignorant, mercenary and corrupt;
and it is to be feared that with regard to many,
especially of the lower orders of the clergy, this
witness is true. But speaking of those with whom
I came into direct contact&mdash;the priests, for the most
part, attached to the more important temples&mdash;I
feel bound to say, that the impression I formed of
them was, on the whole, a distinctly favourable one.
With countenances often indicating close spiritual
application, they appeared to perform their sacred
duties with reverence and attention; while of the
disinterested kindness and hospitality I received at
their hands, as well as of the courtesy and patience
with which they replied to my numerous questions,
I would speak in terms of grateful appreciation.
</p>

<p rend="text-align: center">
<figure url="images/ikegami-temple.png" rend="width: 100%">
  <head>Plan Of Buddhist Temple At Ikegami, Near Tokio.  (<hi rend='italic'>Head-quarters
of the Hokkai or Nichiren sect.</hi>) The path to the left from the Entrance Gate leads
to the Main Temple; that to the right to the Founder's Hall. To
the right of the plan are the Drum-tower and Pagoda. Behind the Main Temple
is the Rinzo or Revolving Library; and in the lower left-hand corner of
the picture is the Reliquary. The two small buildings in the foreground are
the Belfry and the Emado. In the background are the Priests' Apartments and
Reception-rooms.</head>
  <figDesc>Illustration.</figDesc>
</figure>
</p>

<p>
A visit to a Buddhist temple, however, can hardly
fail to suggest to any, who are at all familiar with
the observances of the Roman ritual, a comparison
to which we have already referred,&mdash;I mean the
striking resemblance between the Buddhist ceremonies
and such as have found place in the
Christian Church. The high-altar with its haloed
statues, flowers, candelabra, and ever-burning
lamps; the side-altars, similarly adorned, above
one of which, it may be, is seen the image of
Maia, the mother of Gautama, bearing her infant-son
<pb n='074'/><anchor id='Pg074'/>
in her arms; the priests, tonsured, mitred,
arrayed in their rich vestments, and attended by
their acolytes; the people, bending low in adoration,
or telling their rosaries as they pray; the tinkling of
bells and the perfume of incense; the dim light
of the sanctuary, and the monotonous chant, in
the unknown tongue, of the litanies uplifted for
living and for dead:&mdash;these are only some of the
points of correspondence with Roman Catholic
observances which meet us in almost every
Buddhist temple. Indeed, to attempt to specify
such resemblances in detail would prove a laborious
task. But while the similarity to which I refer
is far too close and remarkable to be accounted for
by mere coincidence, its explanation is by no means
easy. Some would solve the difficulty by referring to
the unquestionable fact that many of the ceremonies
practised in the Christian Church are adaptations of
ancient heathen rites: a leading captive of captivity
of which, as it seems to me, Christianity has far
more reason to be proud than ashamed. But
though the Buddhist observances are, without doubt,
of considerable antiquity, this explanation cannot
be said to be adequate to the requirements of the
case. Far more satisfactory is the theory that
ascribes the phenomenon to an early contact of
China with some form of Christianity&mdash;probably
Nestorianism&mdash;and to the readiness which Buddhism
has ever exhibited to extend its influence
<pb n='075'/><anchor id='Pg075'/>
by a conformity to other faiths. The problem,
however, is one which we must, to a great extent,
be satisfied to leave unsolved; the most eminent
authorities in Orientalism having confessed themselves
baffled. It is only the fact of the resemblance
that admits of no dispute.
</p>

<p rend="text-align: center">
<figure url="images/buddhist-priest.png" rend="width: 100%">
  <head>A Buddhist Priest.</head>
  <figDesc>Illustration.</figDesc>
</figure>
</p>

<p>
It is curious to notice the different effects
produced by an observation of the Buddhist
ceremonial on the minds of Roman Catholic
missionaries upon their first arrival in the East.
By some its likeness to their own ritual has been
regarded as a manœuvre of Satan, designed for the
hindrance of Christian truth; while others have
regarded the resemblance with satisfaction, as calculated
to diminish the difficulties of their work.
Without entering further into this question, I may be
allowed to express the conviction that an elaborate
ceremonial forms at any rate no necessary factor of
Christian work in Japan. So far from this being
the case, I was informed, on no prejudiced authority,
that, the breach once made with the old associations,
converts are disposed to regard anything
tending even remotely to suggest them as more
of a hindrance than a help; and this view finds
support in the large number of adherents gained
by several of the Protestant Missions, with whom
anything in the way of ceremonial is reduced
to a minimum. On the other hand, must be
remembered the very successful work accomplished
<pb n='076'/><anchor id='Pg076'/>
in Japan, alike by the Roman and Orthodox
Churches, whose combined total of some 65,000
adherents is more than double that of the various
Protestant sects,&mdash;the Churches of England and
America, with 4,000 members, not being included
in this computation.
</p>

<p>
Hitherto, I have referred only to the resemblance
outwardly existing between the ceremonies and
observances of Christianity and Buddhism. But
an extension of the comparison results in what is,
at first sight, an even more startling similarity
between incidents recorded of Gautama Buddha,
and events in the life of Jesus Christ, as narrated
in the Gospels. Thus, we are told that Gautama
was born of a virgin mother; that angels appeared
at his nativity; that an ancient seer prostrated
himself before him, and saluted him as one come
down from heaven; that, as a child, he confounded
his teachers by the understanding he displayed, and
the questions which he asked; that, assailed by the
Evil One<note place='foot'>Buddhists believe in the existence of a personal wicked spirit,
named Mara, whose object is to solicit men to evil.</note> with the keenest
temptations,&mdash;including the offer of Sovereignty over all the world, if he
would renounce his mission,&mdash;he yet emerged victorious
from all; that once, being on a mountain,
he was enveloped in a cloud of heavenly light;
that he went down into hell; and that he ascended
into heaven. Indeed, the Christian may be
<pb n='077'/><anchor id='Pg077'/>
pardoned if, for the moment, he feels completely
staggered at all that he finds advanced on behalf
of Sakya-muni; and if his perplexity only begins to
give place to relief, when he discovers that there is
absolutely no trace of such extraordinary coincidence
in the early Buddhist writings, and that there is
no reason for supposing that these alleged events
in the life of Gautama were ever heard of until
the Christian era was already several centuries old.
</p>

<p>
We have now, as far as our limits permit, made
an examination of Buddhism with especial reference
to Japan. But before leaving this part of our
subject, I would humbly, but very earnestly, submit
the question, Is there in Buddhism generally,&mdash;is
there in Buddhism as it exists in Japan at the
present day,&mdash;nothing upon which Christianity
may profitably fasten, nothing to which Christianity
may properly appeal? Is that great proclamation
of Christian tact, which, eighteen centuries ago, the
Apostle Paul delivered on the Areopagus at Athens,
<q>Whom ye ignorantly worship, Him declare I unto
you,</q> one that cannot, more often than it does, find
a place on the lips of our missionaries of to-day?
Is the position a useless one to take, that both the
faiths of Jesus Christ and of Buddha agree in this,
that either has for its object the amelioration of
man's lot, here and hereafter, and his release from
the curse of suffering; only, as we believe, with
this great difference, that the founder of Christianity
<pb n='078'/><anchor id='Pg078'/>
was possessed of resources to which Sakya-muni
laid no claim? These are questions which were
constantly presenting themselves to my mind
during my visit to Japan; but they are questions
also which I heard asked more than once by men
who had closely studied the whole subject and were
deeply interested in mission work. But whatever
the true answer to these questions be, of this we
may be certain: that by no reckless denunciation
of a creed, of the very elements of which the
denouncer is content to be in ignorance, will any
victory of Christ's Cross be achieved. Be the
errors and shortcomings of Buddhism what they
may,&mdash;and we must, to be honest, pronounce them
in our judgment to be many and great,&mdash;it is, at
least, a system of very great antiquity, in whose
strength thousands of millions of our fellow-creatures
have lived and died, both better and
happier. Men cannot be expected lightly to
abandon their allegiance to such a faith as this,
nor would it be to their credit if they did; while
in Christianity, even when faithfully represented,
there is very much calculated to perplex and
estrange one who has been trained in the tenets of
Buddhism. Moreover, however little he may agree
with them, the Buddhist holds that the religious
convictions of others are entitled to respect, and
that their feelings should never be wounded, if this
can be avoided; it is only natural that he, in his
<pb n='079'/><anchor id='Pg079'/>
turn, should be quickly alienated by unsympathetic
treatment. I was told by an English resident of
long standing that infidelity is largely on the
increase in Japan, especially among the men of
the upper and middle classes; and that among the
causes of this was certainly to be reckoned the
contemptuous and merely destructive attitude
towards Buddhism, with which some&mdash;let us hope
they are the very few&mdash;would think to serve
the cause of Jesus Christ. <q>Depend upon it,</q> it
was said to me, <q>it is irreligion that commonly
succeeds to the vacant place, not Christianity.
Carlyle was right when he said, <q>Better even to
believe a lie than to believe nothing.</q></q> And
Buddhism is not all a lie!
</p>

<p>
<q>The perishing heathen.</q> Many of us have been
revolted by such expressions when heard at home.
But it is only when one is living in the midst of
the people of whom they are spoken, that it is
possible to realize the full horror of their meaning.
That men, women, and little children, who are
distinguished by so many good qualities,<note place='foot'>Cf. the
following extract from the speech of the Bishop of
Exeter at the Annual Meeting of the C.M.S. 1892:&mdash;<q>If you had
been asked to sketch an ideal land, most suitable for Christian
Missions, and when itself Christianized more suited for evangelistic
work among the nations of the far East, what, I ask,
would be the special characteristics of the land and people that you
would have desired? Perhaps, first, as Englishmen or Irishmen,
you would have said, <q>Give us islands, inseparably and for ever
united, give us islands which can hold their sea-girt independence,
and yet near enough to the mainland to exert influence there.</q> Such
is Japan&mdash;the Land of the Rising Sun. <q>Give us a hardy race, not
untrained in war by land and sea; for a nation of soldiers, when
won for Christ, fights best under the banner of the Cross&mdash;for we
are of the Church militant here on earth: give us brave men;</q>
and such are the descendants of the old Daimios and two-sworded
Samurai of Japan. <q>Give us an industrial race, not idlers nor
loungers, enervated by a luxurious climate, but men who delight in
toil, laborious husbandmen, persevering craftsmen, shrewd men of
business;</q> and such are the Japanese agriculturists, who win two
harvests a year from their grateful soil&mdash;such are the handicraftsmen
there, whose work is the envy of Western lands; such are the merchants,
who hold their own with us in commerce. <q>Give us men
of culture, with noble traditions, but not so wedded to the past that
they will not grasp the present and salute the future;</q> and such
are the quick-witted, myriad-minded Japanese, who, with a marvellous
power of imitation, ever somehow contrive to engraft their
own specialities upon those of Western lands. Witness their
Constitution, their Parliament, their 30,000 schools in active operation;
witness their museums and hospitals; witness their colleges
and universities. <q>But,</q> you would also have said, <q>give us a race
whose women are homespun and refined, courteous and winsome, not
tottering on tortured feet, nor immured in zenanas and harems, but
who freely mingle in social life, and adorn all they touch;</q> and
such, without controversy, are the women of Japan. Above all,
<q>give us a reverent and a religious people, who yet are conscious that
the religion of their fathers is unsatisfying and unreal, and who are
therefore ready to welcome the Christ of God;</q> and such are the
thoughtful races of Japan.</q></note> and
who&mdash;with, as we believe, such immeasurably
inferior opportunities&mdash;present, in many points, so
<pb n='080'/><anchor id='Pg080'/>
favourable a contrast to ourselves, should be
condemned to a future of hopeless and unending
misery, for not believing that of which, it may be,
they have not even heard, or heard only in crude,
<pb n='081'/><anchor id='Pg081'/>
distorted statement&mdash;can any man <emph>really</emph> think
this, who recognizes the providence of a Father of
Love; nay, I will dare to say, of a Deity of bare
Justice? And yet language thus fearfully misrepresenting
the Faith of Christ is still used by
some who are called by His name; and that it is
used is known by the people of Japan.<note place='foot'>See on
this subject Study VI in the late Dean Plumptre's
<hi rend='italic'>The Spirits in Prison</hi>. The Christian can scarcely doubt that
Gautama has, long ere this, fallen at the feet of the Crucified,&mdash;knowing
at last the Name whereby he has been saved,&mdash;and has
heard from the Divine lips the gracious approval, waiting to be
bestowed on all men of good-will, of whatever age, of whatever
land, who have <q>worked righteousness,</q> and have faithfully
responded to whatever measure of light and opportunity has been
accorded them by God.</note>
</p>

<p>
But again. There is, I have observed, much in
the scheme of Christianity calculated to prove
a stumbling-block to those who have been educated
in the doctrines of Buddhism. Let me proceed
to state some of the difficulties that would be
experienced, some of the objections that would be
raised, by a Buddhist of a certain amount of
intellectual capacity, when confronted with the
claims of the Christian Faith.
</p>

<p>
Thus, (<hi rend='italic'>a</hi>) <emph>the Bible</emph>. <q>We are unable,</q> the
Buddhist would say, <q>to recognize in your Old and
New Testaments an inspired revelation. Why
should we accept your Scriptures, with all their
alleged miracles and supernatural occurrences,
<pb n='082'/><anchor id='Pg082'/>
when you reject ours? Besides, you are not
agreed among yourselves as to inspiration, authenticity,
translation, interpretation. Some of you,
again, are for diffusing the Bible broadcast, others
would keep it in the background. Again, the
Christian doctrine of immortality appears to us
entirely absent from the pages of the Old Testament;
while even the Jews, <q>God's chosen people,</q> refuse to
see in the New Testament the fulfilment of the Old.</q>
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>b</hi>) <emph>The Old Testament.</emph> <q>We cannot regard the
story of Creation, as given in the Book of Genesis,
as anything more than a myth, containing a germ
of truth. Neither can we accept, as historically
true, the story of the temptation in the Garden of
Eden. And yet, upon this is made to rest your
whole theory of the Fall, of Original Sin, and of
Christian Redemption. As for the history of the
Jewish people, we can see in it nothing but one
long story of cruelty and bloodshed; how can
a Creator, a God of Love, be supposed to have
permitted and approved such things?</q>
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>c</hi>) <emph>The Incarnation.</emph> The whole doctrine of the
Incarnation is full of difficulty to the mind of an
Oriental; <emph>not</emph> because of its strangeness and
novelty, but owing to his very familiarity with
stories of miraculous birth in his own legends.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>d</hi>) <emph>The Atonement.</emph> <q>Why should Jehovah
require the sacrifice of His own Son?</q> This is
a difficulty that would present itself with especial
<pb n='083'/><anchor id='Pg083'/>
force to the Buddhist; by whom all life is held
sacred, and whom such texts as <q>Without shedding
of blood there is no remission,</q> fill with repugnance.
The explanation offered by Buddhists themselves
of the Christian doctrine of Atonement is, that its
origin must be sought in the fact that, from the
most ancient times, the idea of sacrifice, and of
human sacrifice, has existed; and this explanation
they go on to apply to the Holy Eucharist.
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>e</hi>) <emph>Eternal Punishment.</emph> <q>How,</q> it is asked,
<q>is your doctrine of Everlasting Punishment
consistent with that of the Remission of Sins?
And how, on the other hand, is not your scheme of
salvation ethically wrong, if it allows people, after
sinning all their lives, to be forgiven on their
death-beds, that so they may enter a Paradise,
wherein good and bad alike have a place?</q>
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>f</hi>) <emph>Faith and Belief.</emph> <q>What right have you
to ask us to believe anything that does not accord
with science and experience, when you have no
better opportunities of knowing than we?</q>
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>g</hi>) <emph>Christian Ethics.</emph> <q>Some of these&mdash;e.g. the
doctrine of the Sermon on the Mount&mdash;we admit
to be good; but they are not peculiar to Christianity&mdash;our
own teaching is very similar. In other
of your ethics, we see only an ignoble and selfish
storing of treasure; it appears to us that a good
action, done for the sake of reward or gain, must
entirely lose its merit.</q>
</p>

<pb n='084'/><anchor id='Pg084'/>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>h</hi>) <emph>Missionary Work.</emph> <q>We do not claim that our
religion is the only way of salvation, but readily
recognize the good points in other systems as well.
You, on the contrary, appear to hold that there is
no other way but your own; and indeed it is only
on this supposition that we can understand the
strenuous efforts which you make to bring us to
abandon our religion for yours.</q><note place='foot'>I may
observe that the language, not only of the New Testament,
but of the <hi rend='italic'>Athanasian Creed</hi>, was quoted to me in this
connexion by a Buddhist priest in Japan. I endeavoured to point
out to him,&mdash;how far convincingly I cannot say,&mdash;what at the
present day at least is generally recognized amongst us; that
for the Christian Church to warn her own children, in terms the
most emphatic just because the most loving, against becoming
entangled in the deadly errors prevalent at the time when the Creed
was drawn up, is a thing wholly distinct from passing any sentence
of eternal condemnation on, or, indeed, expressing any opinion as to
the future state of, such as live and die without ever having been
brought to a knowledge of the Faith. I added, of course, that any
acquaintance with the claims of Christianity is a responsibility for
which we believe all will have to give account.</note>
</p>

<p>
It forms no part of my purpose to discuss these
objections; which, let me add, are merely representative,
and by no means exhaustive. With many
of them we are already familiar at home; and the
Japanese, I would mention, are fully aware of
the unbelief prevalent in England, and well
acquainted with its arguments. Indeed, few English
people, it is probable, have any idea how closely
their history and their literature are studied by
nations living at the other side of the globe, who
<pb n='085'/><anchor id='Pg085'/>
are to them simply <q>the heathen.</q> Some, again,
of the above objections would seem to have been
suggested by imperfect and distorted statements of
Christian truth. I have thought it worth while to
refer to them, in the hope that the fact of such
questions being raised may serve to impress upon
us these two important points:&mdash;(i) the need of
missionaries, at the present day, being not only
men of holy and devoted lives, but also fully equal
in intellectual equipment and culture to our home
clergy; and (ii) the fallacy of trusting to the
circulation of the Bible, as an instrument of
mission work, unless it be accompanied&mdash;or rather
preceded&mdash;by the teaching of the living agent.
</p>

<p>
It must not, however, be imagined that the
obstacles to the progress of the Gospel in Japan are
wholly, or even mainly, of the character I have
referred to. Another great hindrance is most
unquestionably presented in the large number of
competing sects and organizations, which, here as in
other countries where mission work is being carried
on, address the people in the name of Christianity.
It is true that Buddhists themselves are divided
into numerous sects and schools; but between these
there can scarcely be said to be anything of party
animosity and strife. It will, indeed, be heard
with satisfaction that the feeling towards one
another of the various Christian bodies in Japan is,
speaking generally, free from bitterness; and that
<pb n='086'/><anchor id='Pg086'/>
each would appear desirous of doing its own work,
in the wide field before it, without interference
with the efforts of others. <q>The feeling here,</q> it
was observed to me, <q>is nothing like so bad as it
is at home.</q><note place='foot'>I doubt if
the speaker, in his long absence from England, quite
realized the extent to which, of the last few years, bitterness and
intolerance have effaced themselves, at any rate within the limits
of the Church of England; or was aware of the marked improvement
that is exhibited amongst us in dealing with such matters of
controversy as still remain.</note> And as in England bigotry and
suspicion are steadily giving place to mutual
toleration and respect, so may we hope that, both
in our colonies and abroad, counsels of charity may
more and more prevail. Still, at the best, so long
as Romanists, Orthodox, Anglicans, and Sectarians
adhere to the positions they at present occupy, so
long must any real unity of action be impossible;
neither can peace be sought by surrender or compromise
of principle. But meanwhile there is, of
course, a lamentable want of compactness among
the converts&mdash;as a recent writer in the <hi rend='italic'>Japan
Mail</hi>, remarked <q>they are more like scattered groups
of soldiers than an army</q>;&mdash;while the perplexity
occasioned to those we are seeking to convince is
terrible and great.
</p>

<p>
The following extract from Miss Bickersteth's
recently-published <hi rend='italic'>Japan as we saw it</hi> (Sampson
Low, 1893), draws an able contrast between the
religious condition of Japan at the present day
<pb n='087'/><anchor id='Pg087'/>
and the position of Christianity in the time of
St. Francis Xavier. <q>It was impossible not to be
struck with the present complication of religious
matters in the country as compared with the days
of Xavier. Then, on the one side, there was the
Buddhist-Shinto creed, undermined by no Western
science, still powerful in its attraction for the
popular mind, and presenting a more or less solid
resistance to the foreign missionary; and, on
the other, Christianity as represented by Roman
Catholicism, imperfect truly, but without a rival in
dogma or in ritual. Now the ranks of Buddhist-Shintoism
are hopelessly broken; the superstition
of its votaries is exposed by the strong light of
modern science, and their enthusiasm too often
quenched in the deeper darkness of atheism.
Christianity, though present in much greater force
than in the days of Xavier, is, alas, not proportionately
stronger. The divisions of Christendom
are nowhere more evident than in its foreign
missions to an intellectual people like the Japanese.
The Greek, the Roman, the Anglican churches, the
endless <q>splits</q> of Nonconformity, must and do
present to the Japanese mind a bewildering
selection of possibilities in religious truth.</q>
</p>

<p>
To refer to but one other hindrance to Christian
progress in Japan&mdash;which, although the last
mentioned, is by no means the least serious&mdash;I
mean the estimate formed by the natives of
<pb n='088'/><anchor id='Pg088'/>
the practical influence of the Christian religion
upon English people and upon other nations professing
it. Applying to Christianity the test of
its results, they urge that it has, at any rate,
only very partially succeeded. For instance, the
Japanese comment upon the fact that numbers
of Englishmen in Japan never attend the services
of their Church; and that the lives of many of
them display a flagrant disregard for the principles
which should regulate the conduct of Christians.
Without, however, denying either the justice of
these charges, or the reasonableness of the mood
which advances them, I think it may be urged
with fairness that the influence of Christianity on
us as a nation cannot rightly be estimated in this
particular way. As a rule, the Englishman can
scarcely be said to appear to advantage abroad.
Too often he assumes an attitude of insolent
superiority to the people whose guest he is; while
the position in which our countrymen are placed in
a country like Japan&mdash;coupled with the freedom
from restraint, so much greater than at home&mdash;has,
for reasons which we need not now enter into, its
peculiar difficulties. Neither is it by any means
certain that a Japanese, paying a short visit to
England, will gather any just impression of what
hold Christianity has on us as a people. In all
probability the range of his observations will be
very limited and superficial; his wanderings will
<pb n='089'/><anchor id='Pg089'/>
be chiefly confined to the great thoroughfares of the
principal cities; while the circle of his acquaintance
will, it is likely, be equally restricted, and
equally unrepresentative of English life. Not that,
in saying this, we would seek to excuse ourselves,
or deny that there is far more truth than we could
wish, and than there ought to be, in the charges
brought against us. We would merely submit
that there is another side to the picture which
ought not, in fairness, to be overlooked. Admitting
as we must, for instance, the great prevalence of
infidelity in our England of to-day, there is yet
to be placed over against it,&mdash;and may I not add,
drawing it out into the light?&mdash;the increased
activity of the Church during this last half-century,
the remarkable power she has exhibited of adapting
herself to meet the needs of her times, the influence
for good that she has not only been in the past, but
remains at the present day, in the nation at large,
and in thousands and thousands of English homes.
<q>By their fruits ye shall know them</q>: and
Christianity must not and need not deprecate the
application of that test to herself. Only, we would
urge, that is not a fair judgment, which takes
account only of what the Church of Jesus Christ
has failed to do, without recognizing also all that,
in the strength of her Divine Head, she has been
permitted to accomplish.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='090'/><anchor id='Pg090'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>V. Christianity In Japan.</head>

<p>
I propose now to place before my readers
some account of the various Missions at work
in Japan. I am enabled to do this the better
from having obtained, in the course of my visit,
a useful table, compiled by the Rev. H. Loomis, of
the American Bible Society, Yokohama, giving
statistics of the different organizations up to the
beginning of the year 1893. The plan adopted by
Mr. Loomis is to arrange his statistics into three
classes: (1) <q>Protestant Missions,</q> (2) <q>Catholic
Missions,</q> and (3) <q>The Greek Church in Japan.</q>
Under the head of <q>Protestant Missions,</q> are included
the Church of England, the Episcopal
Church of America, a large number of other
American denominations, the Presbyterian Church
of Scotland, the Swiss Evangelical Protestant
Mission, the Society of Friends, U.S.A., Universalists,
Unitarians and others; while under the
head of <q>Catholic Missions</q> we find particulars of
only one branch of the Holy Catholic Church&mdash;the
Church of Rome. This is not the arrangement
I should have made myself; but, as a matter of
<pb n='091'/><anchor id='Pg091'/>
convenience, we will follow it more or less closely.<note place='foot'>In
the course of a letter appearing in <hi rend='italic'>The Christian</hi> of April 20,
1893, the Rev. H. Loomis writes, <q>Let the <emph>forty thousand</emph>
Christians of Japan but dedicate themselves to the welfare of the
country in all its relations, and the true new Japan will be
founded.</q> But Mr. Loomis himself has placed the total membership
of <q>Protestant Missions</q> at 35,500, of the Orthodox Church
at 20,300, and of the Roman Church at 44,800. To which sixty
thousand of these does Mr. Loomis&mdash;presumably&mdash;refuse the title of
<q>Christian</q>? and are we justified in acting thus towards any who
believe in the Holy Trinity, and have accepted Jesus Christ as the
Saviour of the World, Very God and Very Man?</note>
It is right to add that of the thirty <q>Protestant
Missions</q> seven are grouped together under the
title of the <q>Church of Christ in Japan,</q> and work,
it would appear, in general harmony on Presbyterian
principles. In the same way, the American
Episcopal Church, the Church of England&mdash;represented
by both the Church Missionary Society
and the Society for the Propagation of the Gospel&mdash;and
the Mission of Wyckliffe College, Canada,
are associated together; leaving some twenty sects
working independently.<note place='foot'>Even Mr. Loomis'
list does not appear to be exhaustive! The
<q>Plymouth Brethren,</q> e.g., are certainly represented at Tokio.</note>
</p>

<p>
Before, however, proceeding to an examination
of Mr. Loomis' table, we must briefly observe the
past history of Christianity in Japan. This dates
from the arrival of St. Francis Xavier in 1549,
seven years after the country was discovered by
the Portuguese. For some while the missionaries
<pb n='092'/><anchor id='Pg092'/>
were permitted to prosecute their work without
molestation, and considerable progress was being
effected. A deputation of native priests appealed
to the Tycoon, but their remonstrances were unheeded.
With thirty-five religious sects already
represented in Japan, the country, he answered,
might very well find room for a thirty-sixth
religion, viz. Christianity. Presently, however, the
Jesuits being followed by the Dominicans and
Franciscans, mutual factions broke out; while,
elated by their success, some of the missionaries
began to adopt an attitude of high-handed intolerance
and interference. For the first time in their
history, the Japanese found themselves entangled
in all the turmoil and animosity of religious strife.
In 1587 the first persecution of the Christians took
place, but apparently soon subsided. The warning,
however, was disregarded; and the fatal policy
of arrogance and oppression was still persisted in.
Native priests were put to death; Buddhist
monasteries were destroyed; the Inquisition was
set up. In 1614 we find a Japanese embassy
despatched to Rome, in order, so it is said, to make
an act of submission to the spiritual supremacy of
the Pope. Meanwhile the Dutch, jealous of the
position that was being gained by the Portuguese
traders, accused the Roman propagandists to the
Japanese authorities of aiming at a territorial
ascendency; and that intrigues were actually being
<pb n='093'/><anchor id='Pg093'/>
carried on by the Jesuits for the overthrow of the
Shogun there seems little doubt. In the massacre
which ensued several thousand Christians were put
to death. <q>Their unflinching devotion compels
our admiration. One may search the grim history
of early Christian martyrology without finding
anything to surpass the heroism of the Roman
Catholic Martyrs of Japan. Burnt on stakes made
of crosses, torn limb from limb, buried alive, they
yet refused to recant. We are told of one Jesuit
priest, Christopher Ferreya, who, after enduring
horrible tortures, was at length hung by his feet
in such a way that his head was buried in a hole
in the ground from which air and light were
excluded. His right-hand was left loose that he
might make the sign of recantation. He hung for
four hours, and then made the sign; whereupon,
with a rare refinement of cruelty, he was appointed
the president of the tribunal before which Christians
were brought for condemnation. Then, after
a lull, in 1637 thousands of Christians rose in
armed rebellion. After two months they were
forced to surrender, and 37,000 were slaughtered.
Stern decrees were then issued, forbidding the
admission of any foreign vessel; an exception being
made in favour of the Chinese and Dutch. For
more than two hundred years, notice-boards stood
beside highways, ferries, and mountain-passes,
containing, among other prohibitions, the following:&mdash;<q>So
<pb n='094'/><anchor id='Pg094'/>
long as the sun shall warm the earth, let no
Christian be so bold as to come to Japan; and let
all know that the King of Spain himself, or the
Christians' God, or the great God of all, if he violate
this commandment, shall pay for it with his head.</q>
For centuries the name <q>Christian</q> would blanch the
cheek and pale the lip. Christianity was remembered
only as an awful scar on the national
annals. But in the Southern Island the smouldering
fire was never quite extinguished; while, as recently
as 1829, six men and an old woman were
crucified at Osaka.</q><note place='foot'>The above is
an abridgement of a passage in the <hi rend='italic'>Conquests of the
Cross</hi> (Messrs. Cassell &amp; Co.).</note>
</p>

<p>
At the time of the closing of the country to
foreigners, an exception was made of the one port
of Nagasaki, the scene of the final great massacre,
when thousands of native Christians were hurled
from a rocky islet into the sea. Here, however,
as has been already mentioned, the Dutch were
the only Europeans permitted to trade; they being
closely confined to the small island of Deshima.
In addition to having pay a heavy rental, they
were subjected to the closest espionage, not being
suffered, under any circumstances, to pass beyond
the narrow limits assigned to them. Several times
in each year they were summoned before the
authorities, and required to tread under foot
the Crucifix, and other symbols of the Catholic
<pb n='095'/><anchor id='Pg095'/>
Faith. Several of the trampling-boards employed
on these occasions are still to be seen at the Ueno
Museum, Tokio. The Dutch, it would appear,
quieted any qualms of conscience by regarding
their action as amounting to an abnegation, not of
Christianity, but of Romanism. It was not until
thirty years ago that intercourse between Japan
and other nations began to be resumed; and that,
after a short period of ill-feeling and suspicion,
circumstances were brought about which enabled
both Roman Catholics and other Christians to work
without hindrance. In 1872 the interdict against
Christianity was formally removed; and the release
from imprisonment and return from banishment
of hundreds of Christians took place.
</p>

<p>
Such is the past history of Christianity in Japan.
It has, indeed, its elements of glorious and heroic
martyrdom, but it has elements, also, on which
few of us can look back without a deep sense of
shame. Let us trust that by this time the people
of Japan have come to understand that the conflict
of their forefathers was not with Christianity,
but rather with Christians who had forgotten
<q>what spirit they were of.</q>
</p>

<p>
Turning now to the condition of Christian
Missions at the present day, it seems right to
commence with those of the Roman Church. Not
only has the Roman Church in Japan a history
which extends over three hundred years, but it
<pb n='096'/><anchor id='Pg096'/>
reckons at the present time considerably more than
double the number of adherents claimed by any
other Christian body. The Roman influence has
been particularly successful in the Goto Islands, in
the neighbourhood of Nagasaki, where the devoted
labours of the missionaries have won over a considerable
portion of the population.
</p>

<p>
To come to the statistics. These give one Archbishop,
three Bishops, seventy-eight missionary, and
fifteen native priests, with over 300 (native) minor
clergy and catechists; 185 churches and chapels,
with 244 congregations. Seventy-six sisters of the
Order of St. Paul de Chartres are stationed in
Japan, and there are further nineteen native novices.
Other statistics include seventeen orphanages,
with an average of over 100 children; twenty Industrial
Schools; eight Nursing establishments; a Hospital
for the Aged; and a Hospital for Lepers, with
sixty-two inmates, situated at Gotemba, at the
foot of Fuji-san. The number of infant baptisms
for 1892 is given as, children of Christian parents
1,337, and Heathen parents 1,166; these, with
2,806 adult baptisms, and forty-five <q>conversions
of heretics,</q> bringing the total of baptisms and conversions
for the year to 5,354. The work that is
being done by the Roman missionaries is commended
on all sides; a prominent feature in their
methods being a consideration for, and adaptation
to, the habits and prejudices of the people, that
<pb n='097'/><anchor id='Pg097'/>
greatly facilitate their progress, especially among
the poor of the country districts. The whole
number of Roman Catholics in Japan amounts, as
has been said already, to about 45,000.
</p>

<p>
I pass on to speak of the condition of the Greek,
or Orthodox Russian, Church in Japan; whose
relations with the Church of England are here, as
elsewhere, of a friendly though not, of course, of
a very intimate character. Its head-quarters are
at Tokio, where an imposing Cathedral, situated on
high ground and in a central position, has recently
been erected. Unfortunately our information in this
case is very incomplete; but assuming the correctness
of the numbers before us, one is struck by the
paucity of missionary clergy, viz. one bishop and
three priests. To these must be added eighteen
native clergy, and 128 unordained teachers and
workers. There are in all 219 congregations.
The number of adult baptisms in 1892 is given as
952; and the total membership at the present time
exceeds 20,000. Scanty as these details are, they
indicate much activity and progress. The proximity
of Russian territory to Japan&mdash;Vladivostock
being only some 700 miles N. of Nagasaki&mdash;is, of
course, a circumstance highly favourable to the
Orthodox Mission.
</p>

<p>
Coming now to the various bodies arranged by
Mr. Loomis under the title of <q>Protestant,</q> we
will take first the <hi rend='italic'>Nippon Sei Kokwai</hi>, or Church
<pb n='098'/><anchor id='Pg098'/>
of Japan, which is the name given to the union
formed by the Missions of the American Episcopal
Church, the Church of England, and the English
Church in Canada. It is, however, only fair to
say that the total number of adherents of the
Nippon Sei Kokwai are greatly less than half the
number claimed by the Presbyterian Churches, as
also by the Churches of the American Board's
Mission. The Missions, then, of the American
Church and of the Church of England are to
a great extent worked independently of each other,
each being under its own Episcopal control; but
at the same time, the two Churches enjoy, of course,
full intercommunion, and are practically one,&mdash;often
taking counsel together, and dividing the
various districts by mutual arrangement in such
a way as to make the best use of their resources.
To the American Church belongs the honour of
being the first body to commence Christian work in
Japan in the present century; the Rev. C. M. Williams,
afterwards Bishop for Japan and China,
establishing himself at Tokio in 1859, and proceeding
at once to translate portions of the Bible
and Prayer-Book, hold services for the benefit
of English-speaking people, and set on foot schemes
for the study of our language. There are now twelve
missionary clergy at work, and twenty-one female
missionaries; together with seven native clergy and
nineteen unordained workers and preachers. Of the
<pb n='099'/><anchor id='Pg099'/>
twenty-seven organized churches only one is
wholly self-supporting. The number of baptisms
in 1892 was, adults 208, children fifty-eight;
while the total membership amounts to over 1,400,
with a like number of children receiving instruction
in Sunday Schools. In 1873, Dr. Henry Laming
was appointed missionary physician, and arrived
at Osaka, where he has done and is still doing an
excellent work. A good deal of secular educational
work is also carried on in connexion with
the mission.
</p>

<p rend="text-align: center">
<figure url="images/map.png" rend="width: 100%">
  <head>Sketch Map of Japan.</head>
  <figDesc>Illustration.</figDesc>
</figure>
</p>

<p>
We next come to the work of the Church
Missionary Society, which commenced operations
in Japan in 1869. The Society has now twenty-two
missionary and seven native clergy engaged; forty-two
female missionaries, and sixty unordained
preachers. Of its sixteen organized churches one
is self-supporting. The number of baptisms in
1892 was, adults 267, children 121; and the total
membership at the present time amounts to 2,126,
with 600 children in Sunday Schools.
</p>

<p>
The Society for the Propagation of the Gospel
commenced work in 1873; and has its headquarters
at Tokio. The work of the two Community
Missions, founded by Bishop Bickersteth in
1887, is apparently included in the statistics assigned
to the S. P. G. in the table before us. At
St. Andrew's University Mission, five clergy&mdash;all
of whom are University Graduates,&mdash;live in community
<pb n='100'/><anchor id='Pg100'/>
with several native students preparing for
Ordination, while at St. Hilda's Mission, a staff of
English ladies is engaged in work, which includes
schools, a hospital, and a home for mission women.
Both these Missions are supported by the <q>Guild of
St. Paul,</q>&mdash;a society which has branches all over
England,&mdash;whose occasional papers are full of interesting
information. Several other priests of the
S. P. G. are engaged at various mission stations;
and these, with seven native ministers, make in
all some nineteen clergy at work in Japan. The
adult baptisms in 1892 numbered 151, and the
membership at the present time is given as 784.
</p>

<p>
The Wyckliffe College Mission was sent out by
the Canadian Church in 1888. At present it
provides only three clergy, who are engaged at
Nagoya, a flourishing commercial city situated
about midway between Kyoto and Tokio. Bishop
Bickersteth, however, in his recent Pastoral Letter,
refers to its work in hopeful and appreciative
terms.
</p>

<p>
The total number of adherents of the Nippon Sei
Kokwai will thus be seen to be about 4,300 (with
upwards of 2,000 Sunday Scholars); and of these the
Church of England can claim barely 3,000. At
the same time evidence is by no means lacking
that the work is being carried on upon thoroughly
sound principles and along right lines; and there
are many reasons for believing that, with adequate
<pb n='101'/><anchor id='Pg101'/>
resources, a future awaits it, under God, far exceeding
the calculations that might be suggested
by its present numerical strength. Some of the
readers of these pages may, possibly, be in greater
sympathy with the general position of the S. P. G.
than of the C. M. S; but no consideration of this
sort should allow us to be inappreciative of the
splendid work which the C. M. S. has done in the
past, and is still doing in non-Christian countries.
Its chief centre in Japan is at Osaka, another huge
commercial city, some twenty miles from Kyoto
where there is a considerable European settlement.
Bishop Bickersteth&mdash;as does also the American
Bishop, Dr. Williams<note place='foot'>In the course
of the present year (1893), the Rev. J. McKim
has been raised to the American Episcopate in Japan; Dr. Williams
continuing to reside at Tokio. It is also announced that two
new Anglican Bishops are to be consecrated for the Islands of
Kyushu and Yezo respectively. One of these is the Rev. H. Evington,
Examining Chaplain to Bishop Bickersteth, who has been
connected with the C. M. S. Mission to Japan since 1874.</note>&mdash;resides
at Tokio, the capital;
where the services at St. Andrew's Church, adjoining
the Episcopal residence, are such as may well
gladden the heart of an English Churchman, who
finds himself 11,000 miles from home. They include,
I may mention, a Daily Celebration. A striking
feature of the Nippon Sei Kokwai is presented
in its Biennial Synods, three, if not four, of which
have already been held. The Synods are composed
of clergy and laity, every congregation of twenty
<pb n='102'/><anchor id='Pg102'/>
persons being entitled to send its representative;
and they indicate a stage of organization rarely,
if ever, attained to by so youthful a Church.
In a word, what is being aimed at throughout is
not to Europeanize, but to Christianize; not to
form a <q>branch of the Church of England,</q> but to
establish, on those lines of Catholic and Apostolic
Christianity which we believe the Church of England
faithfully represents, a <emph>Japanese Church</emph>, which may
be committed, as soon as ever circumstances allow,
entirely into the hands of the Japanese themselves.
</p>

<p>
The Bishop's Pastoral Letter to his Clergy
(Advent 1892) treats, among other matters, of the
Marriage Law of the Church, of Old Testament
Criticism,&mdash;in the course of his comments upon
which, he makes the quotation, <q>The central object
of our Faith is not the Bible, but our Lord</q>&mdash;and
of the Bishop of Lincoln's case. It exhibits
throughout a tone of earnest Catholicity, of sanctified
prudence, and of Apostolic charity. The
Bishop's observations on the confirmation by the
Privy Council of the Lambeth Judgment will be
read with satisfaction by many:&mdash;
</p>

<p>
<q>The principle of allowed variety in matters
of ritual has now been authoritatively recognized.
Such recognition is essential to the welfare of a
great and living Church in our day. Among other
good results which may follow from the decision,
I cannot but hope will be the liberation of the
<pb n='103'/><anchor id='Pg103'/>
energies and interests of a great and historic party,
hitherto far too closely confined within the boundaries
of our own country, for wider and more
extended work, above all in eastern countries. Its
own position is now legally secured. Any outstanding
questions of ritual could be speedily
settled by the application to them of the same
principles which are embodied in the recent judgments.
This is so plain that probably no such
decisions will be challenged. May it not then be
hoped that there will shortly be a marked cessation
of controversy at home, as for some years past
we are told there has been in our sister Church
in the United States, and coincidently a far more
determined effort on the part of the whole Church
than has yet been known, inspired and sustained
by the Holy Spirit of Truth, to win the East to the
Faith of Christ?</q>
</p>

<p>
We come next to the <hi rend='italic'>Church of Christ in Japan</hi>,
another amalgamation of religious bodies; comprising,
in this case, the Presbyterian Church of the
United States, two or three other American sects,
and the United Presbyterian Church of Scotland.
By far the greater number of denominations
engaged in Japan are of American origin; and this
is, practically, an American work; the Scotch
Presbyterians being represented by only two missionaries
with a single station, and only joining
the Mission in 1875&mdash;fifteen years after two of the
<pb n='104'/><anchor id='Pg104'/>
American bodies had commenced their work. The
number of male missionaries in connexion with
this movement amounts to fifty-two; and to these
must be added fifty-three native ministers, 100
female missionaries, and over 100 lay preachers and
workers. Of the seventy-four organized churches no
less than one-third are wholly self-supporting. Baptisms
in 1892 were, adults 789, children 100; and
the total present membership amounts to 11,190,
with over 2,000 children in Sunday Schools. The
fact that the Presbyterians of Japan have recently
adopted the Apostles' Creed as their Confession of
Faith, in place of the formularies with which their
bodies have hitherto been associated, is hardly the
occasion for satisfaction that would at first sight
appear; the course in question being, I understand,
to some extent due to the prevalence of
views similar to those held by a large number
of the Congregationalists of Japan, to which I shall
presently refer. The work of the Presbyterians
however, must be accounted among the most
successful efforts for the evangelization of the
country; while they have had from the beginning
the advantage of being supported by men of
national reputation and position.
</p>

<p>
We come now to the <hi rend='italic'>Kumi-ai Churches</hi> in connexion
with the American Board's Mission; i.e. the
Congregationalists. This work owes its foundation
to a Japanese gentleman,&mdash;a Mr. Neesima,&mdash;who
<pb n='105'/><anchor id='Pg105'/>
was converted to Christianity, whilst on a visit to
America. Its head-quarters are at Kyoto. Starting
in 1869&mdash;several years after the Presbyterians, their
relations with whom are of a cordial character,&mdash;the
Congregationalists very closely approach them in
numerical strength. The Mission is worked by
twenty-six missionary and twenty-eight native
ministers; with fifty-seven female missionaries and
100 lay agents. Of ninety-two organized churches
one half are self-supporting; a large proportion of
the converts belonging to the middle and upper
classes. 1,096 adults were baptized in 1892 and
sixty-six children. Total adherents 10,700, with
upwards of 6,000 children in Sunday Schools. In
connexion with this Mission is a large college, in
which the greater number of the students are
Christians, and many of these candidates for the
ministry; and mention must also be made of two
hospitals under the care of missionary physicians.
The above figures, without doubt, bear witness to
great energy on the part of the Congregationalist
body; and it is with regret that we find ourselves
compelled to regard them with somewhat modified
satisfaction.
</p>

<p>
<q>Speaking generally, it cannot be too clearly
felt that systems which do not definitely teach
the truths contained in the Apostolic and Nicene
Creeds, whatever benefits may accrue to individuals
from the moral teaching which they impart, are
<pb n='106'/><anchor id='Pg106'/>
not merely negative in tendency and results, but
retard the progress of the Kingdom of Christ in
Eastern lands.</q> Such are the weighty words of
Bishop Bickersteth,<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Pastoral
Letter to his Clergy</hi>, Advent, 1892.</note> the occasion which drew them
forth being the adoption by the Congregationalists
of Japan of the following Declaration of Belief:&mdash;<q>We
believe (i) in the One God, (ii) in Jesus Christ
who came on earth to save sinners, (iii) in the
Holy Spirit from Whom we receive new life, (iv)
in the Bible which shews us the way of salvation,
and (v) in Baptism and the Holy Supper, in
punishments and rewards given by God according
to our merits, in everlasting life if we are righteous,
and in the Resurrection of the Dead.</q> Several of
the clauses in this statement are open to grave
objection; but the fact that the second clause was
deliberately adopted in place of the words, <q>in
Jesus Christ, the Only-Begotten Son of God,
Who suffered and died to atone for the sins of the
world</q>&mdash;an alteration which was heartily welcomed
by the Unitarians of Japan&mdash;is full of painful
significance. The Bishop, while expressing his
thankfulness that there are large numbers in the
Congregationalist body, who have no share in the
prevailing scepticism, points out that in dealing
with others, with whom this is not the case,
nothing can be gained by any attempt at co-operation.
<q>At such times a severe exclusiveness
<pb n='107'/><anchor id='Pg107'/>
may be the truest exhibition of a heartfelt sympathy.</q>
</p>

<p>
To the remaining Missions at work in Japan we
can only very briefly refer. The American Methodist
Episcopal Church has eighteen missionaries and
twenty-nine native ministers; fifty-eight churches;
and a total following of nearly 4,000, exclusive of
children in Sunday Schools. The Canadian Methodists
number over 1,800 adults; and the Baptist
Missionary Union (U.S.A.) about 1,300. Two other
American sects place their total at 500 each. The
German Swiss Protestants number 240; the <q>Universalists</q>
seventy-eight; and the Society of
Friends (U.S.A.) forty-three. The Scandinavian
Church, whose mission has only recently commenced
its work, has seven clergy engaged; and the Unitarians
are represented by two ministers&mdash;my only
reason for mentioning these last-named bodies
together being that no further particulars of either
are to hand.
</p>

<p>
But it is time to be bringing these remarks to
a conclusion. We may, then, declare the total
number in Japan of those professing Christianity
in any form&mdash;[I should, by the way, have mentioned
that the number of male converts would
appear to exceed by about one-third the number of
women,]&mdash;to be not more than 100,000; while the
entire population of the country is estimated at
from thirty-eight to forty millions. In other words,
<pb n='108'/><anchor id='Pg108'/>
not more than one person in every 400 can be said
to be, in any sense, a Christian. I emphasize this
fact, not because I think it discouraging, but
because it seems becoming the fashion for the cause
of Christianity in Japan to be spoken of as already
won. That Japan has still great changes and
developments to undergo in the near future scarcely
admits of question. <q>The nation is working out
its spiritual redemption;</q> and, as Mr. Loomis well
says in his letter to <hi rend='italic'>The Christian</hi> before referred
to, <q>As Japanese society advances, there will be all
the more a place for Christian influence. <emph>The
social problems of the people can only find solution
through religion.</emph></q> We may well believe and hope
that, as time goes on, the true faith of Jesus Christ
and of His Church will more and more prevail. So,
too, we may rejoice that the foundations have been
laid, and that some real and steady progress has
been effected; we may hope that more is, even now,
being accomplished by the leaven of influence than
can at present find place in tables and statistics.
And yet, as we look the position boldly in the face,
we must see that elements to occasion anxiety
are by no means lacking; and especially must we
see how much more remains to be done that has
already been achieved. The possibility of some
form of Christianity being adopted as the national
religion, is a matter as to the desirability of which
it is extremely difficult to express an opinion,
<pb n='109'/><anchor id='Pg109'/>
until the proposition assumes a more definite
shape than is likely for some time to be the case.
</p>

<p>
That both Christianity and Christians are subjected
to searching criticism at the hands of the
more educated natives we have already seen;
while, from time to time, tidings are received of
bitter opposition encountered by those engaged in
the work of evangelization among the poor of the
country districts. Moreover, in that spirit of
accommodation to which we have several times referred,
as forming so striking a feature of the
system, Buddhism appears now to be striving to
maintain its position in Japan, by a re-statement
of its doctrines in such terms as to place itself in
accordance with the modern systems of philosophy,
which have found such favour and acceptance with
the educated classes. At the same time, there is,
without doubt, a widespread persuasion throughout
Japan&mdash;in many cases most reluctantly arrived at&mdash;that
the former ascendency of Buddhism has for
ever passed away. <q>A dull apathy as regards
religion has settled down upon the educated classes
of Japan. The gods of heathenism have crumbled to
nothing before modern science and civilization,
and the glimmer of light and truth to which they
pointed has gone as well.</q><note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Occasional
Paper</hi>, Guild of St. Paul, Oct. 1893.</note> Sometimes, again,
Christianity is spoken of by Buddhists in terms
which encourage us to hope that there are those
<pb n='110'/><anchor id='Pg110'/>
who, while they have not as yet taken the decisive
step, are still <q>not far from the kingdom of God.</q>
Take, for examples, these words of a Mr. Nakanishi.
<q>It is the glory of mankind that Jesus lived.
Much that Christ taught will never decay. Did
Christ's teaching come from man, or from above
man? Every word, every phrase, of Christ should
influence us. In the Four Gospels, the noblest and
wisest morality of the world appears. So simple is
it, so easily understood and applied. <q>Love God
and love man,</q> as central principles, suffice to
regenerate society and lead men to heaven. Christ's
character and teachings stand for ever.</q>
</p>

<p>
With a brief reference to one or two further
points suggested by Mr. Loomis' table, I will bring
this, my last chapter, to a close. One of these is
the distinction he draws&mdash;and it is a distinction
quite worth drawing&mdash;between married and unmarried
missionaries. Of course, the Roman clergy
are all unmarried, as are also the four missionaries
of the Orthodox Church; but when we come to the
<q>Protestant Missions,</q> we find the numbers of
married and unmarried clergy to be 205 and
thirty-seven respectively. Indeed, with the exception
of the Church of England, the Scandinavian
Alliance, and the American Methodist Episcopal
Church, which supply six each, there is no mission
with more than two unmarried clergy, and several
have not even one. Now it is certain that this is
<pb n='111'/><anchor id='Pg111'/>
not the way in which great mission work has been
done in the past; but is the newer way better than
the old? Beyond observing that the presence of
female missionaries is in a very special degree
needed in Japan, be they the wives of the clergy or
not, I will not presume to answer that question
myself; but I may, perhaps, be allowed to record
the opinion, emphatically expressed to me, of one
who has lived in the East for a great many years,
and is by no means in sympathy with the compulsory
celibacy of the Roman priesthood. <q>It is,</q> he
remarked, <q>far too hastily assumed that the fact of
the married missionary usually bringing another
valuable ally to the work sufficiently determines the
question. But I am convinced that, speaking
generally, it is to the unmarried missionary that
wider opportunities of usefulness are extended.
Nor is it merely that his movements are entirely
free and unhampered&mdash;that he is exempt from
domestic obligations and anxieties&mdash;that he has
more time for study&mdash;and that he is thrown more
in the society of his brother clergy. As a man's
children begin to grow up, educational and other
considerations in connexion with these, urge upon
him the desirability of returning home, with the
result that, just as he has begun to master the
difficulties of language, and to enter into the
thought and habits of the people, his place is taken
by a tyro, who, however well-meaning, cannot but
<pb n='112'/><anchor id='Pg112'/>
have all his experience to gain.</q> No doubt, there
is plenty of room for both married and unmarried
clergy in the mission field; but the great preponderance
of the married in the case before us
may well serve to suggest the consideration:&mdash;Might
not more of that large and possibly increasing
number of unmarried clergy in England be drawn
to take part in a work of such fascinating interest&mdash;<q><emph>a
work</emph>,</q> if I may once more quote the words of
our Bishop in Japan, <q><emph>that must be done at once if
it is to be done at all</emph>.</q>
</p>

<p>
Another point that can scarcely fail to strike us
as we examine Mr. Loomis' statistics, is the large
number of <q>dismissals and exclusions</q> made by
those bodies which supply information under this
head, and amounting in some cases to several
hundreds in a year. That such measures are
not resorted to without grave reason may be
assumed, and that some exercise of discipline is
especially necessary in dealing with a young and
nascent church admits of no dispute. There is
indeed every reason to hope that by far the greater
number of converts are actuated by an intense
sincerity, and evidence of this is afforded in the
self-sacrifice to which they, in many ways, readily
submit for the Faith they have embraced. But, at
the same time, it is probable that the numbers in
question indicate an even larger proportion of
<q>failures,</q> than is the case with mission work
<pb n='113'/><anchor id='Pg113'/>
generally; and that they point not only to losses
through <q>back-sliding,</q> but to many instances of
insincerity on the part of those professing conversion.
It has been remarked that it does not belong
to the Japanese temperament to <q>take things <foreign rend='italic'>au
grand serieux</foreign>;</q> and this characteristic extends to
matters of religion. The young fellow, for instance,
who, for some reason or another, thinks it <q>worth
his while</q> to conform to Christianity for a time,
will have the very smallest scruples about doing so;
and that, with a semblance of earnestness that will
baffle, at any rate for some time, the careful
scrutiny to which candidates are rightly subjected
by most, if not all, of the missionary bodies.
The missionaries, I fear, are often imposed on; and
yet&mdash;anything, surely, is better than being over
suspicious and severe. After all, what we want to
do is to show these different nations to whom we
go, that Christ and His Church, and we, His
members, do really care for them, alike in things
temporal and eternal. Our Faith, to be really
preached, needs to be boldly, hopefully practised.
And especially in Japan, where the only idea that
such a phrase as <q>eternal life</q> would commonly
suggest is that of a series of painful and endless
transmigrations, must Christianity be ready to
prove herself man's friend in the things of this life,
if she would be looked to with confidence for the
things that lie beyond.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='a01'/><anchor id='Pga01'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Publications Of The Society for Promoting Christian Knowledge.</head>

<p>
Church Hymns.
</p>

<p>
New Edition. Containing 658 Hymns.
</p>

<p>
Words Only.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Edition A.</hi> Long Primer, demy 18mo.
In various bindings from 1<hi rend='italic'>s.</hi> to 4<hi rend='italic'>s.</hi>
6<hi rend='italic'>d.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Edition B.</hi> Small Pica, small post 8vo.
In various bindings from 1<hi rend='italic'>s.</hi> 6<hi rend='italic'>d.</hi>
to 4<hi rend='italic'>s.</hi> 6<hi rend='italic'>d.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Edition C.</hi> Pearl, medium 32mo.
Paper cover, 1<hi rend='italic'>d.</hi>; limp cloth, cut flush,
2<hi rend='italic'>d.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Edition D.</hi> Diamond, medium 32mo.
Limp cloth, cut flush, 4<hi rend='italic'>d.</hi>
</p>

<p>
Words And Music.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Edition E.</hi> Nonpareil 8vo.
In various bindings from 2<hi rend='italic'>s.</hi> 4<hi rend='italic'>d.</hi>
to 5<hi rend='italic'>s.</hi> 6<hi rend='italic'>d.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Edition F.</hi> Long Primer, Imperial 16mo.
In various bindings from 4<hi rend='italic'>s.</hi> 6<hi rend='italic'>d.</hi>
to 9<hi rend='italic'>s.</hi>
</p>

<pb n='a02'/><anchor id='Pga02'/>

<p>
Works By Mrs. Rundle Charles, Author Of
<q>The Chronicles of the Schönberg-Cotta Family.</q>
</p>

<p>
The Beatitudes. Thoughts for All Saints' Day. Post 8vo.
<hi rend='italic'>Cloth boards.</hi> 1<hi rend='italic'>s.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<q>By the Mystery of Thy Holy Incarnation.</q> Post 8vo. <hi rend='italic'>Cloth
boards.</hi> 1<hi rend='italic'>s.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<q>By Thy Cross and Passion.</q> Thoughts on the words spoken
around and on the Cross. Post 8vo. <hi rend='italic'>Cloth boards.</hi>
1<hi rend='italic'>s.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<q>By Thy Glorious Resurrection and Ascension.</q> Easter
Thoughts. Post 8vo. <hi rend='italic'>Cloth boards.</hi> 1<hi rend='italic'>s.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<q>By the Coming of the Holy Ghost.</q> Thoughts for Whitsuntide.
Post 8vo. <hi rend='italic'>Cloth boards.</hi> 1<hi rend='italic'>s.</hi>
</p>

<p>
The True Vine. Post 8vo. <hi rend='italic'>Cloth boards.</hi> 1<hi rend='italic'>s.</hi>
</p>

<p>
The Great Prayer of Christendom. Thoughts on the Lord's
Prayer. Post 8vo. <hi rend='italic'>Cloth boards.</hi> 1<hi rend='italic'>s.</hi>
</p>

<p>
An Old Story of Bethlehem. One link in the great Pedigree.
Fcap. 4to, with six plates, beautifully printed in colours. <hi rend='italic'>Cloth
boards.</hi> <hi rend='italic'>2s.</hi>
</p>

<p>
Joan the Maid, Deliverer of England and France. Demy 8vo.
<hi rend='italic'>Cloth boards.</hi> 2<hi rend='italic'>s.</hi> 6<hi rend='italic'>d.</hi>
</p>

<p>
Songs, Old and New. Demy 16mo. <hi rend='italic'>Cloth boards.</hi>
2<hi rend='italic'>s.</hi> 6<hi rend='italic'>d.</hi>
</p>

<p>
Ecce Ancilla Domini. Mary the Mother of our Lord. Studies in
the Ideal of Womanhood. Post 8vo. <hi rend='italic'>Cloth boards.</hi>
1<hi rend='italic'>s.</hi> 6<hi rend='italic'>d.</hi>
</p>

<p>
Ecce Homo, Ecce Rex. Pages from the Story of the Moral Conquests
of Christianity. Crown 8vo. <hi rend='italic'>Cloth boards.</hi>
2<hi rend='italic'>s.</hi> 6<hi rend='italic'>d.</hi>
</p>

<p>
Three Martyrs of the Nineteenth Century. Studies from the
Lives of Gordon, Livingstone, and Patteson. Crown 8vo.
<hi rend='italic'>Cloth boards.</hi> 2<hi rend='italic'>s.</hi>
6<hi rend='italic'>d.</hi>
</p>

<p>
Martyrs and Saints of the First Twelve Centuries. Studies
from the Lives of the Black-letter Saints of the English
Calendar. Crown 8vo. <hi rend='italic'>Cloth boards.</hi>
3<hi rend='italic'>s.</hi> 6<hi rend='italic'>d.</hi>
</p>

<p>
Against the Stream. The Story of an Heroic Age in England.
With eight page woodcuts. Crown 8vo. <hi rend='italic'>Cloth boards.</hi>
2<hi rend='italic'>s.</hi> 6<hi rend='italic'>d.</hi>
</p>

<p>
Conquering and to Conquer. A Story of Rome in the days of
St. Jerome. Illustrated. Crown 8vo. <hi rend='italic'>Cloth boards.</hi>
2<hi rend='italic'>s.</hi>
</p>

<p>
Attila and his Conquerors. A Story of the days of St. Patrick
and St. Leo the Great. Crown 8vo. <hi rend='italic'>Cloth boards.</hi>
2<hi rend='italic'>s.</hi>
</p>

<pb n='a03'/><anchor id='Pga03'/>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>Early Christian Missions of Ireland, Scotland, and England.</hi>
Crown 8vo. <hi rend='italic'>Cloth boards.</hi> 2<hi rend='italic'>s.</hi>
6<hi rend='italic'>d.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>Lapsed, not Lost.</hi> A Story of Roman Carthage. Crown 8vo.
<hi rend='italic'>Cloth boards.</hi> 2<hi rend='italic'>s.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>Within the Veil.</hi> Studies in the Epistle to the Hebrews. Post
8vo. <hi rend='italic'>Cloth boards.</hi> 1<hi rend='italic'>s.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>The Book of the Unveiling.</hi> Studies in the Revelation of St.
John the Divine. Post 8vo. <hi rend='italic'>Cloth boards.</hi> 1<hi rend='italic'>s.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>Lady Augusta Stanley.</hi> Reminiscences. 18mo.
<hi rend='italic'>Limp cloth.</hi> 6<hi rend='italic'>d.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>Sketches of the Women of Christendom.</hi> Crown 8vo.
2<hi rend='italic'>s.</hi> 6<hi rend='italic'>d.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>Thoughts and Characters.</hi> Being Selections from the Writings
of Mrs. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Charles</hi>. Crown 8vo.
<hi rend='italic'>Cloth boards.</hi> 2<hi rend='italic'>s.</hi> 6<hi rend='italic'>d.</hi>
</p>

<p>
Early Britain.
</p>

<p>
This Series has for its aim the presentation of Early Britain at great historic
periods. Each volume is the work of an accredited specialist, and the
whole gives the result of recent critical examinations of our Early Records.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>Anglo-Saxon Britain.</hi> By the late
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Grant Allen</hi>. With Map.
2<hi rend='italic'>s.</hi> 6<hi rend='italic'>d.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>Celtic Britain.</hi> By Professor
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Rhys</hi>. With two Maps. 3<hi rend='italic'>s.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>Norman Britain.</hi> By the Rev. W.
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Hunt</hi>. With Map. 2<hi rend='italic'>s.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>Post-Norman Britain.</hi> By
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Henry G. Hewlett</hi>. With Map. 3<hi rend='italic'>s.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>Roman Britain.</hi> By the Rev. E.
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Conybeare</hi>. With Map. 3<hi rend='italic'>s.</hi>
6<hi rend='italic'>d.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>Roman Roads in Britain.</hi> By
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Thomas Codrington</hi>, M.Inst.
C.E., F.G.S. With several Maps. 5<hi rend='italic'>s.</hi>
</p>

<p>
Conversion Of The West.
</p>

<p>
These are intended to show the condition of the chief races of the West before
they were brought into contact with Christianity; and how their Conversion
was brought about, and the immediate results.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>Fcap. 8vo, with Map, cloth boards, 2s. each.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>The Continental Teutons</hi>, by the late Very
Rev. C. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Merivale</hi>.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>The English</hi>, by the late Rev. G. F.
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Maclear</hi>, D.D.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>The Northmen</hi>, by the late Rev. G. F.
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Maclear</hi>, D.D.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>The Slavs</hi>, by the late Rev. G. F.
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Maclear</hi>, D.D.
</p>

<pb n='a04'/><anchor id='Pga04'/>

<p>
The Dawn Of European Literature.
</p>

<p>
A set of Works designed to present the chief races of Europe as they emerge
out of pre-historic darkness into the light furnished by their earliest recorded
words.
</p>

<p>
Post 8vo, cloth boards, 2<hi rend='italic'>s.</hi>
6<hi rend='italic'>d.</hi> each.
</p>

<p>
Anglo Saxon Literature. By the Rev. Professor <hi rend='smallcaps'>Earle</hi>.
</p>

<p>
French Literature. By the late <hi rend='smallcaps'>Gustave Masson</hi>, B.A.
</p>

<p>
Slavonic Literature. By W. R. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Morfill</hi>, M.A.
</p>

<p>
The Greek Epic. By George C. W. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Warr</hi>, M.A.
3<hi rend='italic'>s.</hi>
</p>

<p>
The Fathers For English Readers.
</p>

<p>
A Series of Monograms on the Chief Fathers of the Church, the Fathers selected
being centres of influence at important periods of Church History, and in
important spheres of action.
</p>

<p>
Fcap. 8vo, cloth boards, 2<hi rend='italic'>s.</hi> each.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>Boniface</hi>. By the Rev. Canon
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Gregory Smith</hi>. 1<hi rend='italic'>s.</hi>
6<hi rend='italic'>d</hi>.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>Clement of Alexandria</hi>. By the
Rev. F. R. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Montgomery
Hitchcock</hi>, B.D. 3<hi rend='italic'>s</hi>.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>Leo the Great</hi>. By the Right
Rev. C. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Gore</hi>, D.D.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>Gregory the Great</hi>. By the
late Rev. J. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Barmby</hi>, B.D.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>Saint Ambrose</hi>: his Life,
Times, and Teaching. By
the Rev. R. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Thornton</hi>,
D.D.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>Saint Athanasius</hi>: his Life
and Times. By the Rev. R. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Wheler Bush</hi>.
2<hi rend='italic'>s</hi>. 6<hi rend='italic'>d</hi>.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>Saint Augustine</hi>. By the late
Rev. E. L. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Cutts</hi>, D.D.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>Saint Basil the Great</hi>. By the
Rev. R. T. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Smith</hi>, B.D.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>Saint Bernard</hi>: Abbot of
Clairvaux, <hi rend='smallcaps'>a.d.</hi> 1091-1153.
By Rev. S. J. Eales. 2<hi rend='italic'>s</hi>. 6<hi rend='italic'>d</hi>.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>Saint Jerome</hi>. By the late Rev.
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Edward L. Cutts</hi>, D.D.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>Saint Hilary of Poitiers, and
Saint Martin of Tours.</hi>
By the Rev. J. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Gibson
Cazenove</hi>, D.D.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>Saint John of Damascus</hi>. By
the Rev. J. H. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Lupton</hi>.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>Saint Patrick</hi>: his Life and
Teaching. By the Rev. E. J. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Newell</hi>, M.A.
2<hi rend='italic'>s</hi>. 6<hi rend='italic'>d</hi>.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>Synesius of Cyrene</hi>, Philosopher
and Bishop. By
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Alice Gardner</hi>.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>The Apostolic Fathers</hi>. By
the Rev. Canon <hi rend='smallcaps'>Scott
Holland.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>The Defenders of the Faith</hi>;
or, The Christian Apologists
of the Second and Third
Centuries. By the Rev. F.
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Watson</hi>, D.D.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>The Venerable Bede</hi>. By the
Right Rev. G. F. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Browne</hi>.
</p>

<pb n='a05'/><anchor id='Pga05'/>

<p>
The History Of The Ancient
Peoples Of The Classic East.
</p>

<p>
By Professor <hi rend='smallcaps'>Maspero</hi>. Edited by the Rev. Professor
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Sayce</hi>.
Translated by <hi rend='smallcaps'>M. L. McClure</hi>. Each volume contains Maps,
coloured Plates, and numerous other Illustrations.
</p>

<p>
Demy 4to, cloth, bevelled boards.
</p>

<p>
Volume I. <hi rend='bold'>The Dawn of Civilization: Egypt and Chaldaea.</hi>
Fourth Edition. 24<hi rend='italic'>s.</hi>; half-morocco, 48<hi rend='italic'>s.</hi>
</p>

<p>
Volume II. <hi rend='bold'>The Struggle of the Nations: Egypt, Syria, and
Assyria.</hi> 25<hi rend='italic'>s.</hi>; half-morocco, 50<hi rend='italic'>s.</hi>
</p>

<p>
Volume III. <hi rend='bold'>The Passing of the Empires, 850
<hi rend='smallcaps'>b.c.</hi>&mdash;330 <hi rend='smallcaps'>b.c.</hi></hi>
25<hi rend='italic'>s.</hi>; half-morocco, 50<hi rend='italic'>s.</hi>
</p>

<p>
Ancient History From The
Monuments.
</p>

<p>
Fcap. 8vo, cloth boards, 2<hi rend='italic'>s.</hi> each.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>Assyria, from the Earliest Times to the Fall of Nineveh.</hi>
By the late <hi rend='smallcaps'>George Smith</hi>, of the British Museum. A New
and Revised Edition, by the Rev. Professor <hi rend='smallcaps'>Sayce</hi>.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>Sinai, from the Fourth Egyptian Dynasty to the Present
Day.</hi> By the late <hi rend='smallcaps'>Henry S. Palmer</hi>. A New Edition,
revised throughout by the Rev. Professor <hi rend='smallcaps'>Sayce</hi>. With Map.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>Babylonia (The History of).</hi> By the late
<hi rend='smallcaps'>George Smith</hi>.
Edited and brought up to date by the Rev. Professor <hi rend='smallcaps'>Sayce</hi>.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>Persia, from the Earliest Period to the Arab Conquest.</hi> By
the late <hi rend='smallcaps'>W. S. W. Vaux, M.A.</hi> A New and Revised Edition,
by the Rev. Professor <hi rend='smallcaps'>Sayce</hi>.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>The <q>Higher Criticism</q> and the Verdict of the Monuments.</hi>
By the Rev. Professor <hi rend='smallcaps'>A. H. Sayce</hi>. Demy 8vo. Buckram,
bevelled boards, 7<hi rend='italic'>s.</hi> 6<hi rend='italic'>d.</hi>
</p>

<pb n='a06'/><anchor id='Pga06'/>

<p>
Chief Ancient Philosophies.
</p>

<p>
This Series deals with the chief systems of Ancient Thought, not merely as dry
matters of History, but as having a bearing on Modern Speculation.
</p>

<p>
Fcap. 8vo, cloth boards, 2<hi rend='italic'>s.</hi>
6<hi rend='italic'>d.</hi> each.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>Neoplatonism.</hi> By the Rev. <hi rend='bold'>C. Bigg, D.D.</hi>
3<hi rend='italic'>s.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>Platonism.</hi> By the Rev. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Thomas B. Strong,
M.A.</hi> 3<hi rend='italic'>s.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>Epicureanism.</hi> By the late Professor
<hi rend='smallcaps'>William Wallace</hi>.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>Stoicism.</hi> By Rev. <hi rend='smallcaps'>W. W. Capes</hi>,
Fellow of Hertford College.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>Aristotelianism.</hi> The Ethics of Aristotle. By the Rev.
<hi rend='smallcaps'>I. Gregory Smith</hi>. The Logical Treatises, the Metaphysics,
the Psychology, the Politics. By the Rev. <hi rend='smallcaps'>W. Grundy</hi>.
</p>

<p>
Diocesan Histories.
</p>

<p>
This Series furnishes a perfect Library of English Ecclesiastical History. Each
volume is complete in itself, and the possibility of repetition has been carefully
guarded against.
</p>

<p>
Fcap. 8vo, with Map, cloth boards.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>Bath and Wells.</hi> By the Rev.
<hi rend='smallcaps'>W. Hunt</hi>. 2<hi rend='italic'>s.</hi> 6<hi rend='italic'>d.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>Canterbury.</hi> By the late Rev.
<hi rend='smallcaps'>R. C. Jenkins.</hi> 3<hi rend='italic'>s.</hi>
6<hi rend='italic'>d.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>Carlisle.</hi> By the late <hi rend='smallcaps'>Richard
S. Ferguson.</hi> 2<hi rend='italic'>s.</hi> 6<hi rend='italic'>d.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>Chester.</hi> By the Rev. <hi rend='italic'>Rupert
H. Morris.</hi> With Map.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>Chichester.</hi> By the late Very
Rev. <hi rend='smallcaps'>W. R. W. Stephens.</hi>
With Map and Plan. 2<hi rend='italic'>s.</hi> 6<hi rend='italic'>d.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>Durham.</hi> By Rev. <hi rend='smallcaps'>J. L. Low.</hi>
With Map and Plan. 2<hi rend='italic'>s.</hi> 6<hi rend='italic'>d.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>Hereford.</hi> By the late Rev.
Canon <hi rend='smallcaps'>Phillpott.</hi> 3<hi rend='italic'>s.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>Lichfield.</hi> By the Rev. <hi rend='smallcaps'>W.
Beresford.</hi> 2<hi rend='italic'>s.</hi> 6<hi rend='italic'>d.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>Lincoln.</hi> By the late Rev. Canon
<hi rend='smallcaps'>E. Venables</hi>, and the late
Ven. Archdeacon <hi rend='smallcaps'>Perry</hi>.
With Map. 4<hi rend='italic'>s.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>Llandaff.</hi> By the Rev. <hi rend='smallcaps'>E. J.
Newell, M.A.</hi> With Map.
3<hi rend='italic'>s.</hi> 6<hi rend='italic'>d.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>Norwich.</hi> By the Rev. <hi rend='smallcaps'>A.
Jessopp, D.D.</hi> 2<hi rend='italic'>s.</hi> 6<hi rend='italic'>d.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>Oxford.</hi> By the Rev. <hi rend='smallcaps'>E. Marshall.</hi>
2<hi rend='italic'>s.</hi> 6<hi rend='italic'>d.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>Peterborough.</hi> By the Rev.
<hi rend='smallcaps'>G. A. Poole, M.A.</hi> 2<hi rend='italic'>s.</hi>
6<hi rend='italic'>d.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>Rochester.</hi> By the Rev. <hi rend='smallcaps'>A. J.
Pearman.</hi> With Map. 4<hi rend='italic'>s.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>Salisbury.</hi> By the Rev. <hi rend='smallcaps'>W. H.
Jones.</hi> With Map. 2<hi rend='italic'>s.</hi> 6<hi rend='italic'>d.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>Sodor and Man.</hi> By <hi rend='smallcaps'>A. W.
Moore, M.A.</hi> 3<hi rend='italic'>s.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>St. Asaph.</hi> By the Ven. Archdeacon
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Thomas</hi>. 2<hi rend='italic'>s.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>St. David's.</hi> By the Rev. Canon
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Bevan</hi>. With Map. 2<hi rend='italic'>s.</hi>
6<hi rend='italic'>d.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>Winchester.</hi> By the Rev. <hi rend='smallcaps'>W.
Benham, B.D.</hi> 3<hi rend='italic'>s.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>Worcester.</hi> By the Rev. <hi rend='smallcaps'>I.
Gregory Smith</hi> and Rev.
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Phipps Onslow</hi>. 3<hi rend='italic'>s.</hi>
6<hi rend='italic'>d.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>York.</hi> By the Rev. Canon
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Ornsby, M.A., F.S.A.</hi> 3<hi rend='italic'>s.</hi>
6<hi rend='italic'>d.</hi>
</p>

<pb n='a07'/><anchor id='Pga07'/>

<p>
Non-Christian Religious Systems.
</p>

<p>
Fcap. 8vo, cloth boards, 2<hi rend='italic'>s.</hi>
6<hi rend='italic'>d.</hi> each.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>Buddhism</hi>: being a sketch of the Life and Teachings of Gautama,
the Buddha. By <hi rend='smallcaps'>T. W. Rhys Davids</hi>, M.A., Ph.D. With
Map.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>Buddhism in China.</hi> By the Rev. <hi rend='smallcaps'>S. Beal.</hi>
With Map.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>Christianity and Buddhism: a Comparison and a Contrast.</hi> By
the Rev. <hi rend='smallcaps'>T. Sterling Berry, D.D.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>Confucianism and Taouism.</hi> By Professor <hi rend='smallcaps'>Robert
K. Douglas</hi>, of the British Museum. With Map.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>Hinduism.</hi> By the late Sir
<hi rend='smallcaps'>M. Monier-Williams, M.A., D.C.L.</hi> With Map.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>Islam and its Founder.</hi> By <hi rend='smallcaps'>J. W. H.
Stobart.</hi> With Map.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>Islam as a Missionary Religion.</hi> By
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Charles R. Haines.</hi> 2<hi rend='italic'>s.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>Studies of Non-Christian Religions.</hi> By
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Eliot Howard.</hi> 2<hi rend='italic'>s.</hi>
6<hi rend='italic'>d.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>The Coran:</hi> its Composition and Teaching, and the Testimony it
bears to the Holy Scriptures. By Sir <hi rend='smallcaps'>William Muir, K.C.S.I.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>The Religion of the Crescent, or Islam:</hi> its Strength, its Weakness,
its Origin, its Influence. By the Rev. <hi rend='smallcaps'>W. St. Clair
Tisdall, M.A.</hi> 4<hi rend='italic'>s.</hi>
</p>

<p>
Colonial Church Histories.
</p>

<p>
Fcap. 8vo, with Map, cloth boards.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>Diocese of Mackenzie River</hi>, by the Right Rev.
<hi rend='smallcaps'>W. C. Bompas,
D.D.</hi>, Bishop of the Diocese. 2<hi rend='italic'>s.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>New Zealand</hi>, by the late Very Rev.
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Henry Jacobs, D.D.</hi>, Dean
of Christchurch. Containing the Dioceses of Auckland, Christchurch,
Dunedin, Nelson, Waiapu, Wellington and Melanesia. 5<hi rend='italic'>s.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>History of the Church in Eastern Canada and Newfoundland</hi>,
by the Rev. <hi rend='smallcaps'>J. Langtry.</hi> 3<hi rend='italic'>s.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>The Church in the West Indies</hi>,
by the Rev. <hi rend='smallcaps'>A. Caldecott.
B.D.</hi> 3<hi rend='italic'>s.</hi> 6<hi rend='italic'>d.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>The Story of the Australian Church,</hi>
by the Rev. <hi rend='smallcaps'>E. Symonds.</hi>
2<hi rend='italic'>s.</hi> 6<hi rend='italic'>d.</hi>
</p>

<pb n='a08'/><anchor id='Pga08'/>

<p>
Early Church Classics.
</p>

<p>
Small post 8vo, cloth boards, 1<hi rend='italic'>s.</hi> each.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>A Homily of Clement of Alexandria</hi>, entitled, Who is the Rich
Man that is Being Saved? By Rev. <hi rend='smallcaps'>P. Mordaunt Barnard.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>Bishop Sarapion's Prayer-Book</hi>: An Egyptian Pontifical dated
probably about 350-356 <hi rend='smallcaps'>a.d.</hi> Translated from the Edition of
Dr. <hi rend='smallcaps'>G. Wobbermin</hi>. With Introduction, Notes, and Indices,
by the Right Rev. <hi rend='smallcaps'>John Wordsworth, D.D.</hi>
1<hi rend='italic'>s.</hi> 6<hi rend='italic'>d.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>St. Cyprian on the Lord's Prayer.</hi> An English Translation
with Introduction. By the Rev. <hi rend='smallcaps'>T. Herbert Bindley,
M.A., D.D.</hi> 1<hi rend='italic'>s.</hi> 6<hi rend='italic'>d.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>St. Polycarp, Bishop of Smyrna.</hi> By the Rev.
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Blomfield Jackson, M.A.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>The Doctrine of the Twelve Apostles.</hi> Translated into English,
with Introduction and Notes, by the Rev. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Charles Bigg, D.D.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>The Epistle of St. Clement, Bishop of Rome.</hi> By the Rev.
John <hi rend='smallcaps'>A. F. Gregg, M.A.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>St. Augustine's Treatise on the City of God.</hi>
By Rev. <hi rend='smallcaps'>F. R. M.
Hitchcock, M.A., B.D.</hi> 1<hi rend='italic'>s.</hi> 6<hi rend='italic'>d.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>The Epistle of the Gallican Churches</hi>: Lugdunum and Vienna.
With an Appendix containing Tertullian's Address to Martyrs
and the Passion of St. Perpetua. Translated, with Introduction
and Notes, by Rev. <hi rend='smallcaps'>T. Herbert Bindley, D.D.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>The Epistles of St. Ignatius, Bishop of Antioch.</hi>
By Rev. <hi rend='smallcaps'>J. H.
Srawley, M.A.</hi> In two volumes. 1<hi rend='italic'>s.</hi> each.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>The Liturgy of the Eighth Book of <q>the Apostolic Constitutions,</q></hi>
commonly called the Clementine Liturgy. Translated
into English, with Introduction and Notes, by Rev. <hi rend='smallcaps'>R. H.
Cresswell, M.A.</hi> 1<hi rend='italic'>s.</hi> 6<hi rend='italic'>d.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>The Shepherd of Hermas.</hi> By the Rev.
<hi rend='smallcaps'>C. Taylor, D.D.</hi>, Master
of St. John's College, Cambridge. Vol. I. 2<hi rend='italic'>s.</hi>
</p>

</div>

</body>
<back rend="page-break-before: right">
  <div id="footnotes">
    <index index="toc" />
    <index index="pdf" />
    <head>Footnotes</head>
    <divGen type="footnotes"/>
  </div>
  <div rend="page-break-before: right">
    <divGen type="pgfooter" />
  </div>
</back>
</text>
</TEI.2>
